---
authors:
- Benjamin Lincoln
collection_id: 889
collections:
- 'Second Congress:  Transcribed Reports and Other Communications Transmitted to the House of Representatives by the Secretary of the Treasury, 1st Vol.'
content_note: Letter contained in document titled "Extracts from the Secretary of War's letters to the late Major General Greene"
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:51+00:00'
day: '30'
description: Lincoln desires to be informed by General Greene if Greene will be able to provide clothing for the troops he will retain with his army. Lincoln has no doubt that the clothing can be provided
  if Charleston is evacuated by the British. But despite difficulties and little hope of success he will ship the clothing from Philadelphia if it cannot be obtained in Charleston.
doc_types:
- Letter
document_number: '1782093090101'
omeka_image_id: 12415
images:
- 9f3402e6f0c5524933adcd00fa6d54917517653a.jpg
- 728dede90cd8c9da2a3d88052b2eff6a3102e927.jpg
- 0c53e757a9df6e222913956fde29a453839a8a58.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- troops
- supplied
- clothing
- evacuation
- losses and delays
notable_locations:
- Charleston
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- Nathaniel Greene
- Benjamin Lincoln
- Greene's troops
omeka_id: 36395
page_start: '2'
recipients:
- Nathaniel Greene
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Clothing for General Greene's Southern Army
year: '1782'
---




difficulties, merited a very different fate, mine is the unhappy
station, in which I must hear complaints, without having it
in my power to redress the grievances."
"September 30th, 1782
"The moment you have taken your determinations, what
hoops you will retain, I wish to be informed, whether they can, or
cannot be supplied with clothing, with you; of this, I suppose, 
there will be no doubt, in case Charleston should be evacuated ___
indeed, we had almost better give any price, than think of
sending it from here. We have met with so many losses and
delays, that we have little hope of success, should it be again
attempted; however, if the clothing cannot be had with you, it
must go from hence."
"November 5th 1782.
"If the whole (the army) are to remain, and Charleston is
not left by the British, large supplies must be immediately
forwarded ___ if it should be evacuated, I hope, we shall have
it in our power to procure the necessary articles of clothing in
that town. On these matters, I wish for the earliest information."
"December 1st, 1782
"I trust, you will be enabled to furnish an ample supply of
clothing for the troops, from the Warehouses in Charleston, as I
mentioned to you in a former letter."
"If clothing cannot be supplied there, I hope, we shall be in a 
capacity to afford you a considerable supply from Virginia, which , I
think
think, might be speedily forwarded, in coasting craft, to 
Charleston."
"December 16th, 1782.
"I am exceedingly obliged by your attention to the
arrangement, and by teh manner, in which you have
conducted it ___ I am equally so, by your care in pro=
=curing clothing for the troops, which has happily relieved
me from an anxiety, that has long oppressed me. Mr. 
Morris will honor your draughts ___ he appears to be
well satisfied with the steps, which you have taken."
"April 2nd 1783.
"The idle surmise, you mention, has not reached us ___
nor do I suppose it ever will; but should any one presume
to echo the malicious whisper, you may be assured, that
the most pointed contradiction shall sppress it."
Extract of a letter from the Secretary at War
to the Commander in Chief.
"January 22nd 1783.
"Clothing has been purchased for the Southern 
Army, by General Greene, who advises the Superin=
=tendant of Finance, that he has drawn bills on him
for the amount. This circumstance will enable us to order
a quantity of clothing, which had been purchased in Virginia,
to the main Army."
Extracts from the Records in the War Office.
January 20th. 1794                      H. Knox, Secr.y at War
