---
authors:
- Benjamin Lincoln
collection_id: 889
collections:
- 'Second Congress:  Transcribed Reports and Other Communications Transmitted to the House of Representatives by the Secretary of the Treasury, 1st Vol.'
content_note: Letter contained in document titled "Extracts from the Secretary of War's letters to the late Major General Greene"
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:51+00:00'
day: '02'
description: Idle surmise mentioned by Greene has not reached the office of the Secretary at War's office, nor does Lincoln suppose it ever will. But he assures Greene that should anyone presume to echo
  the malicious whisper the most pointed contradiction shall suppress it.
doc_types:
- Letter
document_number: '1783040290101'
omeka_image_id: 12415
images:
- 9f3402e6f0c5524933adcd00fa6d54917517653a.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- idle surmise
- malicious whisper
- pointed contradiction
notable_persons:
- Nathaniel Greene
- Benjamin Lincoln
- Secretary at War's office
- General Greene
omeka_id: 36406
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Nathaniel Greene
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Suppression of Rumors
year: '1783'
---




B.
Extracts from the Secretary of War's letters to the late Major General Greene.
July 10th 1782.
"The sufferings of your troops have impressed me with the deepest concern, and the very painful sensations, which your relation of them excites, are powerfully enhanced, that these distresses should have been the lot of an army, not only entitled, by special contract, to better fare, but whose meritorious and gallant exertions under the most extreme difficulties.
335.
difficulties, merited a very different fate, mine is the unhappy station, in  which I must have complaints, without having it in my power to redress the grievances."
"September 30th 1782
"The moment you have taken your determinations, what hoops you will retain, In wish to be informed, whither they can, or cannot be supplied with clothing, with you; of this, I suppose, there will be no doubt, in case Charleston should be evacuated indedd, we had almost better give any price, than think of sending it from here. We have met with so many losses and delays, that we have little hope of success, shoul dit be again attempted; however, if the clothing cannot be had with you, it must go from hence."
"November 5th 1782
336.
think, might be speedily forwarded, in coasting craft, to Charleston."
"December 6th 1782
"I am exceedingly obliged by your attention to the arrangement, and by the manner, in which you have conducted it _ I am equally si, by your case in pro-
curing clothing for the troops, which has happily relieved me from an anxiety, that has oppressed me. Mr. Morris will honor your draights _ he appears to be well satisifed with the steps, which you have taken."
"April 2nd 1783
"The idle surmise, you mention, has not reached us - nor do I suppose it ever will; but should any one presume to echo the malicious whisper, you may be assured, that the most pointed contradiction shall suppress it."
Extract of a letter from the Secretary at War to the Commander in Chief.
"January 22[nd] 1783
"Clothing has been purchased for the Southern Army, by General Greene, who advises the Superint-
tendant of Finance, that he has drawn bills on him for the amount. This circumstance will enable us th order a quantity o fclothing, which had been purchased in Virginia, to the main Army."
Extracts from the Records in the [undecipherable] Office.
January 20th 179[undecipherable] [undecipherable] Knox Sec at War
