---
authors:
- Colonel De Cambray
collection_id: 779
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:51+00:00'
day: '30'
description: 'De Cambray empowers Col. Laumoy to settle his accounts with Congress. Notes two particular items of concern: compensation for the cost of hiring a servant and compensation for a journey from
  Fort Pitt to Charleston on orders in the public service.'
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1783073060001'
omeka_image_id: 22481
images:
- cabba27295e93e64a6a1cc5de966f8df84ae609a.jpg
- f4bb344cc9053e481200cdc2b2f2af5db1af1b1f.jpg
- 5c8cd726642a4f982d7726343a6ad1b00fc1fa3f.jpg
- 51a7dd5c99f112b701cac24d36dc630737693496.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- Camp
- accounts
- payment
- sum
- resolution
- journey
- expense
- warrant
- continental dollars
- public service
- settlement
- allowance
- depreciation
- cash
- advances
- books
notable_locations:
- Paris
- Philadelphia
- Fort Pitt
- Charleston
notable_persons:
- John Pierce
- De Cambray
- Congress
- Laumoy
- officers
- servant
omeka_id: 36409
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- John Pierce
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Paris
title: Settlement of an Officer's Account
year: '1783'
---



As you were at Camp when I left Philadelphia I could not have the pleasure to converse with you about my accounts. Apprehending that the settlement of these should take place whilst about upon leave, I left in Col. Laumoy&#65533;s hands a note with a full power to act for me as he thought most convenient. The object of this my letter is to confirm and warrant that same power wherein he is authorized to settle my accounts and to receive the full payment or any partial one of any is to take place. I enclose to you at the same time an account of what is due to me by the United States without filling the sums. Having not with me the Resolutions of Congress to guide me I have only indicated in general terms the motives of these sums which will be easily filled in your Board. 

There are two articles that want an explanation by a Resolution of Congress of the 11th march 1780 if I do not Mistake, the officers who took no soldier for servants were allowed to draw pay for a servant hired. I have been in that predicament ever since march 1779. I do not suppose that may experience any objection.

The other, however just, is liable to objection and I believe the sense of Congress ought to be taken upon it, which cannot be but in my favor.

I was ordered in 1779 from fort Pitt to Charlestown. Upon my representation to Congress how onerous such a Journey would be upon me if at my expense, that body Resolved the 1st February 1779 that a Warrant of 2,000 Continental dollars should be paid to me and I to be accountable. I know well that there is a Resolution by which any sum given to an officer is to be accounted on his pay there have been several Resolutions about the allowance to officers Journeying upon public service. The fact is that that Journey from fort Pitt to Charleston costed to me 2700 dollars. Upon the settlement of my accounts of the 17 Nov. 1781 that sum was accounted on my pay and by the depreciation at 10 for 1 was found to be a sum of 200 dollars in cash; near three months pay; it is not probable that the intention of Congress should be that I am to bear the weight of the expense of that Journey undertaken by his orders for public service. You will judge better what [prayer?  ?] must be taken about that matter which I must leave entirely to your discretion.

I have put nothing as to the different advances received on account as it will appear clearly enough in your books. I shall not embark for America again till next January.
