---
authors:
- Henry Jackson
collection_id: 778
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:52+00:00'
day: '19'
description: Discusses exchange of notes for the pay of the Army and other financial matters. Mentions a dinner of the Massachusetts Society of the Cincinnati.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1784021970001'
omeka_image_id: 22831
images:
- afdc02343eec3c575331709e0026ae9babfde907.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- 5 February 1784
- Morris's notes
- letter
- exchange
- dollars
- 7 January 1784
- receipts
- high spirits
- greatest harmony
notable_locations:
- Boston
- Massachusetts
- Philadelphia
- Marston's Tavern
notable_persons:
- John Pierce
- '[Henry] Jackson'
- Jackson
- John Pierce
- Captain Hayne
- Robert Morris
- Mr. Lovell
- officers of the Army
- Captain Abbott
- the Army
- Mrs. Hull
- Massachusetts Society of the Cincinnati
- fellows and officers
- Society in Philadelphia
- General Knox
- General Putnam
- Colonel Cobb
- Colonel Hull
- Major Larjiant
- Massachusetts General Assembly
- committee of both Houses
- Mrs. Hull
- Miss Pierce
- Paymaster General
- Captain Hayward
- paymaster general
note: Image upgrade needed.
omeka_id: 36590
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- John Pierce
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Boston
title: Exchange of notes and Society of the Cincinnati.
year: '1784'
---



[standard illegible text placeholder]
Boston Feby 19th 1784
Dear Sir
Your favor of the 5th Inst by 
Captain Hayward inclosing me
two thousand &, forty dollars
Morris Notes I have recd I immediately 
waited on Mr. Lovell &
Shew him your Letter to me on the
Subject of exchange - he very 
politely informed he would do evry
thing in his power to love [editors note: "have" is also a possiblity] the
officers of the Army, & the moment
an opportunity offered he would 
exchange fifteen hundred dollars
for me on sight — this moment being
at the [undecipherable] Hour to hear the
news of the day.  Capt. Abbott
formally of the Masstts. in
formed me he intended to set out
for [indecipherable] t at 7 OClock this 
afternoon.  I have desired him to wait
until 5 OClock which he has committed too —
I therefore Send you by 
the em*ent of [undecipherable]
You which Mr. Lovell has [undecipherable]
moment paid me in exchange for
fifteen hundred dollars in Morris
notes dated Jany 1784 —
Mr. Lovell will monthly
exchange fifteen hundred dollars
of Morris's Notes for the use of
the Army, & he informs' me he has 
writen you by the post this day
on the Subject - the remaining
five Hundred & forty dollars Morris'
Mr. Lovell will exchange in a few
days in part for the next month
month you may be the first
opportunity Send me Nine hundd
& Sixty dollars more to compleate
the 15 Hundd
30633
for the next month — Capt. Abbott
has Signed duplicate receipts for the
amount of fifteen hundred dollars
one of them I inclose expense — as the
[indecipherable]
excuse my not writing him - please
to inform him Mrs. Hulls Son &c are
all well & her father informed my yesterday
her little girl was exceeding well
& grew finely — the Massachusetts
Society of the Cincinnati meeting
we had ninety members present &
the followg officers were appointed
delegates to meat at the General
Soceity in Philadelphia May 
next — Genl Knox, Genl. Putnam
Colo. Cobb Colo. Hull & Major Serjant
about sixty of us dined together
at Marstons Tavern - we were
all in high Spirits & spent the
day in the greatest harmony —
over General
over General assembly have appounted
a Committee of both
Houses to take into consideration
the dangerous tendency of the 
[undecipherable]
Fortunity I will inform by
good friend Hull every concern
I have respecting it — I assure
you it made; a great noise
Genl. Heath was conn [undecipherable] &
not meet with our — my
best compliments to Mrs. Hull &
Miss Peirce & my [undecipherable] list regards
to Hull & your [undecipherable] wishing the
Mrss every happiness -- 
yours fondly
H Jackson
John Peirce Esqr
Pay Master Genl A A

From Genl Jackson
md Note 7 j: 1784
