---
collection_id: 969
collections:
- Archive Reports 1891
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:54+00:00'
day: '22'
description: Minutes of a meeting, held at Niagara, between officers of the 8th and 34th Regiments and the Chiefs and warriors of the Mississaga Indians.
doc_types:
- Contemporary Copy of Letter
document_number: '1784052290001'
omeka_image_id: 7109
images:
- 180d805b52c87ad6061559a77527b67269788007.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- treaty
notable_locations:
- Lake Ontario, Lake Huron, Lake Erie
- Catfish Creek
notable_persons:
- Colonel Hayes
- John Butler
- Major Potts
- Captain Parke
- Captain Forbes
- Colonel Hamilton
- Delaware
- Mississaga
- Six Nations
- 8th Regiment
- 34th Regiment
omeka_id: 36784
page_start: '1'
repositories:
- 'National Archives of Canada: Archives and Government Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
title: Meeting at Niagara
year: '1784'
---



Copy
Duplicate
p. 349
A Meeting held at Niagara 22d May 1784 with the Mississaga Indians accompanied by the Chiefs and Warriors of the Six Nations, Delaware, &c.
Present
Lieut. Colonel Hayes 34th Regt.
Capt. Forbes 34th Regt.
Lt Col John Butler Dy Agent Indn Affairs
Coll. Hamilton 8 Regt
Major Potts, Corps Rangers
Captain Parke 8th Regiment
with many these officers & of the Garrison.
Mr. Nicholas Stevens & Mr. William Brown, Inter
After the usual Ceremonies and Compliments was made, Pokquan a Mississaga Chief rose and spoke as follows.
Father. Some days ago your message with this Belt was received desiring us to assemble at the great Council Fire, Kindled at this place by the King our Father, we accordingly collected our people as soon as possible and are now ready to hear your business with us.
Returned the Belt.
Lieut Colonel John Butler then spoke.
Children.  I have have received the Commander in Chiefs order there Sir John Johnson, to purchase some Land the property
of you the Mississagas Laying of
traverse the Lakes Michigan, Huron,
& Erie, for the use of such of your
Brethren of the Six Nations as
as may wish to plant and
Hunt thereon, as well as for
an intended Settlement for 
such of His Majesty's faithful
Subjects who have assisted him
during the late War, as wish to
settle and improve the same;
it would be needless for me to
add more at present as I have
already explained every Excess [undecipherable]
of our present Business
as well as forclose intentions
in as clear a light to you, the 
Chiefs, as is my Power to do.
Therefore expect your  [indecipherable].
A Wett
Pokquan Mississaga Speaker
Father & Brethren Six Nations } We have considered your request
Father- We the Mississagas are not
the owners of all that Land  [undecipherable]
Nation  the three Lakes but we
have agreed and are willing to
transfer our right of soil & [undecipherable]
to the King our Father; for the
use of His People, and our Brethren
the Six Nations from the Heart
of the Lake Ontario or the Creek
Waghquata is the River Lastranchy[?]
thence down that River
until South Comersvill [?] striks the
the north of Catfish Creek, on 
Lake Erie, this tract of Land we
imagine will be quite sufficient
both for the King's People and
our Brethren the Six Nations,
who may wish to settle and
Hunt thereon. Your request or
proposal does not give us that
trouble or concern; that you might
imagine from the Answers you
requested, from some of our people
the other day, that difficulty
is intirely removed, we are [undecipherable],
and consider ourselves and the
Six Nations to be one and the
same people and agreeable to a
former and mutual agreement,
we are bound to hale each other
Brother, Captain Brant we are
happy to hear that you intend
to settle at the River Oswego
with your people, we hope you
will keep your p*g men in
food order. as we shall be in
our neighbourhood, and to live 
in, friendship with each other
as Brethren ought to do —
Colonel Butler
Children
I have paid strict attendance
to your Answers and I now thank
your for the Friendly attachment
you show to your Brethren
the
the Six Nations, and I
imagine that the Land you
now have agreed to dispose
of will be sales favourably[?] both
to the Commanmander in Cheif
and Sir John Johnson, your
Brethren the Six Nations will
Answer for themselves.
Indorsed Copy
Duplicate  No 6
Proceedings of a Commission
at Niagara with the Mississagas
the Chiefs and Warriors of the
Six Nations, Delawares & on
22d May, 1784
