---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 516
collections:
- Robert Goodloe Harper
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:56+00:00'
day: '16'
description: Commissioners arriving from the Governor of Halifax, discussed their transportation.  Bemoaned delayed travel arrangements and personal agenda.  Negotiations for Indian lands required acquiescing
  to any demands Indians make on U.S.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1784081660001'
omeka_image_id: 9868
images:
- ef6d9d8904d1d90730bf70f4cd30903586bdccc2.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- business
- list of stores
- packet
- vessel
- application
notable_locations:
- Hingham
- Papamaquadi
- Passumaquaddi
- Passamaquadi
- frontier
- territory
notable_persons:
- Benjamin Lincoln
- Henry Knox
- commissioners
- Governor of Halifax
- governor and council
- commissary
- Devens
- Indians
- Partridge
- Mrs. Lincoln
- Indian Nation
omeka_id: 36939
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Benjamin Lincoln
repositories:
- 'South Caroliniana Collection: University of South Carolina'
resource_type: Document
title: Commissioners Arriving and Purchase of Indian Lands
year: '1784'
---



General Lincoln
Hingham
[docket in margin in another hand]
Gen Knox
Augst 16th 1784
Dorchester Monday Morng 16 Augt 1784 
My dear Sir I received your note of the 10th on Friday evening, 
informing me that you should not be ready to sail untill 
the 25th.  I wish it were possible to be sooner, as I have so 
long postponed my own business that I am apprehensive 
I shall not have a sufficiency of time to perform it in any 
tolerable manner previous to the first of October at which 
time it is indispensably necessary I should be here. 
A Vessell has arrived from Passamaquadi and says that 
Commissioners from the Governor of Hallifax are the? have 
arrived [indecipherable: several words crossed out] for us - 
If you still adhere to your former day 
of the 25th or if you could possibly fix a shorter one, it will 
I will do every thing in my power to accelerate our 
departure.  Whatever Vessell is determined upon, application[?] 
must be made to the Governor and Council for it - This 
will be a matter of some days --- Mr. Commissary says[?] 
he must have a list of Stores some days previous to 
our departure --- If you will see and fix the affair[?]
with the master of the longest hingham Packet, or if he 
cannot go, or his Vessel is unfit, we will endevor in conjunction 
with Mr. Devens to find a suitable one here --- We ought  
to determine upon the nature and quantity of things to be 
presented to the indians, and make application for them 
-- We shall appear ridiculous enough in their eyes 
to ask them for their land, and not give them any 
thing to prepare their minds to acquiesce in so modest 
a request.  I hope you have you consulted with Mr. Partridge 
& know his precise time.  
I am my dear Sir, with compliments 
to Mrs. Lincoln and your [word crossed out] amiable Family 
Your Affectionate 
H Knox 
Genl Lincoln
