---
author_note: Oliver Wolcott; Richard Butler; Arthur Lee; Onogwendahonji; Torwighnatogon; Oheadarighton; Kendarindgon; Tayaconendagighti; Tehonwaeaghriyagi; Otyadonenghti; Dayaheari; Oraghgoanendagen; Ononghsawengti;
  Tharondawagen; Kayenthoghke.
authors:
- Oliver Wolcott, Jr.
collection_id: 337
collections:
- Samuel Kirkland Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:57+00:00'
day: '22'
description: Treaty of peace between the United States and Six Nations. Promises return of hostages. Describes boundary lines and possession of land. Promises supply of goods to the Six Nations for their
  use and comfort. alludes to Revolutionary War.
doc_types:
- Printed or published document
document_number: '1784102290001'
omeka_image_id: 6475
images:
- a0020c5a287e54c8415925308c6e1c9e2f46e213.jpg
- a74568c8d5454df983273f62a9f7b674bfeeae71.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- western boundary of the lands of the Six Nations
- secured in the peaceful possession of the lands they inhabit
- execution of the humane and liberal views of the United States
- signing of the aboe articles
- order goods to be delivered
- use and comfort
- Seneca Abeal tribes of Indians
- Oneida and Tuscarora nations shall be secured in the possession of the lands on which they are settled
- line shall be drawn beginning at the mouth of the creed about four miles east of Niagara, called Oyonwayea, or Johnston's landing Place upon the lake
- peace to the Senecas, Mohawks, Onandagas, and Cayugas
- receive them into their protection
- Article 1
- hostages shall be immediately delivered to the commissioners
- remain in possession of the United States till all the prisoners, white and black, which were taken by the said Senecas
- in the late war
- people of the United States
- commissioners plenipotentiary from the United States in Congress assembled
- sachems and warriors of the Six Nations
- Articles of a treaty
notable_locations:
- Fort Stanwix
- Oyonwayea, Johnston's Landing Place
- Oswego
- Lake Ontario
- Lake Erie
- Tehoseroron, or Buffalo Creek
- Pennsylvania
- Ohio River
- Niagara
- United States of America
- Fort Stanwix
notable_persons:
- Oliver Wolcott
- Richard Butler
- Arthur Lee
- Onogwendahonji
- Torwighnatogon
- Oheadarighton
- Kendaringdon
- Tayaconendagighti
- Tehonwaeaghriyagi
- Otyadonenghte
- Dayaheari
- Oraghgoanendagen
- Ononghsawengti
- Tharondawagen
- Kayenthoghke
- Samuel Jo. Atlee
- William Maclay
- Fras. Johnson
- Aoeronkill
- Alexander Campbell
- Samuel Kirkland
- Samuel Montgomery
- Derick Lane
- John Mercer
- William Pennington
- Mahlon Ford
- Hugh Peebles
- James Dean
- Mohawks
- Oneida
- Senacas
- Onondagas
- Cayugas
- Sachems
- Warriors
- Six Nations
- hostages
omeka_id: 37042
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '2'
repositories:
- 'Hamilton and Kirkland College: Burke Library'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Fort Stanwix
title: Treaty of Fort Stanwix with Six Nations
year: '1784'
---



[machine typed]
Some or all of the pages of
this file are wholly or in
part illegible. We have not
been able either to locate a
better copy of the 
document, or to enhance its
legibility electronically.
Page 1 BTA01
ARTICLES of a TREATY,
Concluded at Fort Stanwix, on the twenty-second day of October, one thousand seven hundred and eighty four, between Oliver Wolcott, Richard Butler and Arthur Lee, COMMISSIONERS PLENIPOTENTIARY from the United States in Congress assembled, on the one Part, and the SACHEMS and WARRIORS of the SIX NATIONS on the other.
THE United States of America give peace to the Senecas, Mohawks, Onondagas and Cayugas, and receive them into their protection upon the following conditions.
Article 1. Six hostages shall be immediately delivered to the commissioners by the said nations, to remain in possession of the United States, till all the prisoners white and black, which were taken by the said Senecas, Mohawks, Onondagas and Cayugas, or by any of them in the late war, from among the people of the United States, shall be delivered up.
Art. 2. The Oneida and Tuscarora nations shall be secured in the possession of the lands on which they are settled.
Art. 3.  A line shall be drawn, beginning at the mouth of a creek about four miles east of Niagara, called Oyonwayea or Johnson's Landing Place, upon the lake named by the Indians Oswego, and by us Ontario, and thence southerly in a direction always four miles east of the carrying path, between lake Erie and Ontario, to the mouth of Tehoseroron or Buffalo creek on lake Erie, thence south to the north boundary of the state of Pennsylvania, thence west to the end of the said north boundary, thence south along the west boundary of the said state, to the river Ohio, the said line from the mouth of Oyonwayea to the Ohio, shall be the western boundary of the lands of the Six Nations, so that the Six Nations shall and do yield to the United States all claims to the Country west of the said boundary, and then they shall be secured in the peaceful possession of the lands they inhabit east and north of the same, reserving only six miles square round the fort of Oswego, to the United States for support of the same.
Art. 4. The Commissioners of the United States in consideration of the present circumstances of the Six Nations, and in execution of the humane and liberal views of the United States upon the signing of, the above articles, will order goods to be delivered to the said Six Nations for their use and comfort.
ONOGWENDAHONJI, his x mark;                OLIVER WOLCOTT, (L.S.)
TORWIGHNATOGON, his x mark;                RICHARD BUTLER,  (L.S.)
OHEADARIGHTON, his x mark;                 ARTHUR LEE,   (L.S.)
KENDARINDGON, his x mark
TAYACONENDAGIGHTI, his x mark
TEHONWAEAGHRIYAGI, his x mark
[ed. note: notations along the left margin indicate the first and second indian names written represent the Mohawks, the third and fourth the Onandogas the fifth and sixth represent the  Senecas]
(Signers carried forward)                  OTYADONENGHTI
(Signers brought forward.)
OTYADONENGHTI, his x mark.
DAYAHEARI, his x mark.
ORAGHGOANENDAGEN, his x mark.
ONONGHSAWENGTI, his x mark.
THARONDAWAGEN, his x mark.
KAYENTHOGHKE, his x mark.
[ed. note: Notation along the left hand margin identifies the first two of the above signers to represent the Oneidas, the third the Cayugas, the fourth and fifth the Tuscaros and the sixth th Seneca Abaeal]
Witness. SAML. JO. ATLEE,
WM. MACLAY,
FRAS. JOHNSON
[The above 3 individuals are indicated by a bracket and notation to be Pennsylvania Commissioners]
SAML. KIRKLAND, Missy.
JAMES DEAN,
SAML. MONTGOMERY,
DERICK LANE, Capt.
JOHN MERCER, Lieut.
WILLIAM PENNINGTON, Lieut.
MAHLON FORD, Ensign.
HUGH PEEBLES.

Copy Treaty
Wth Six Nations of Indians
Oct 22 1784
X
Articles of a Treaty concluded at Fort Stanwix on the 22d
Day of Octr 1784. Between Oliver Wolcott Richd Butler
and Arthur Lee Commissioners Plenipotentiary
from the United States in Congress Assembled on
the one part and the Sachems & Warriors of the
Six Nations on the other. —
The United States give peace to the Senacas Mohaw[ks]
Onondagas & Cayugas & receive them into their
protection upon the following conditions —
Article 1st Six hostages shall be immediately
delivered to the Commissioners by the said 
Nations, to remain in possession of the United
States, till all the Prisoners white and Black, which
were taken by the said Senacas, Mohawks,
Onondagas & Cayugas or by any of them
in the late war from among the people of
the United States shall be delivered up —
Article 2d. The Oneida and Tuscarora Nations
shall be secured in the possession of the Lands 
on which they are settled —
Article 3d A Line shall be drawn beginning
at the Mouth of a Creek about 4 mile east
of Niagara, called Oyonuyea or Johnsons 
landing place, upon the Lake named
by the Indians Oswego & by us the Ontario, from
thence southerly in a direction always 4
miles east of the carrying path, between
lake Erie & Ontario, to the mouth of the
Tehosesoron on Buffaloe Creek and on Lake
Erie — Thence South to the north boundary
of the State of Pennsylvania - thence west
to the end of the said north boundary —
thence South along the west boundary of ye sd
State to the river Ohio — the said line from
the mouth of Oyonwayea to the Ohio
shall be the western boundary of the lands
of the Six Nations - so that the Six Nations
shall & do yield to the United States all claims
to the Country west of the said boundary
& then they shall be secured in the peaceful
possession of the Lands they inhabit
Est & North of the Same receiving only Six 
Miles Square round the Fort of Oswego
& the United States for the support of the Same -
Article 4th The Commissioners of the United
States in consideration of the present cir
circumstances of the Six Nations & in the execution of
the humane & liberal views of the United States
upon signing the above Articles will order
goods to be delivered to the said Six Nations for
their use and comfort —
Articles of a Treaty concluded at 
Fort Stanwix, on the 22d day of October,
One Thousand seven hundred and eighty 
four, between Oliver Wolcott, Richard 
Butler and Arthur Lee Commissioners 
Plenipotentiary from the United States 
in Congress Assembled, on the one Part, 
and the Sachems and Warriors of the 
Six Nations on the other.
The United States of America 
give Peace to the Senecas, Mohawks, Onondagas 
and Cayugas, and receive them 
into the Protection of the United States
upon the following Conditions.
Article First — Six Hostages 
shall be immediately delivered to the 
Commissioners of the United States by 
the said Nations, to remain in the Possession 
of the United States, till all the Prisoners 
white and black, shall be delivered up.
Article Second — The Oniada and 
Tuscarora Tribes shall be secured in 
[indecipherable] the Possession of the Lands on which
they are settled.
Article Third —  A Line shall be 
drawn beginning at the mouth of 
a creek about four miles East of 
Niagara, called Oyonwayea or
Johnson's Landing at a Place upon the 
Lake Erie named by the Indians Oswego, 
by us Ontario, and thence southerly in 
a direction always four miles east of the
carrying Path, between Lake Erie and 
Ontario, to the mouth of Tehoseroron 
or Buffaloe Creek on lake Erie, thence 
South to the northward North Boundary of the 
State of Pennsylvania, thence west 
to the end of the said north Boundary, of the 
thence South along the west Boundary thereof 
said State, to the river Ohio, the said 
Line from the mouth of Oyonwayea to 
the Ohio, shall be the western Boundary 
of the Lands of the Six Nations, so that 
the United States Six Nations shall and 
do yield to the United States all claims 
to the Country west of the said Boundary 
and then they shall be secured in the 
peaceful Possession of the Lands they 
inhabit east and north of the same reserving
only six miles Square round the Fort of 
Oswego for support of the same
Article Fourth — The Commissioners 
of the United States in consideration [of]
the present circumstances of the Six N[ati]ons, 
and in execution of the humane and 
liberal Views of the United States upon 
the signing of the above articles will
Order goods to be delivered to the said Six Nations for their use and comfort.
Witnesses —
Samuel Atlee 
William. Maclay 
Francis Johnson 
Aaron Hill 
Alexander Campbell
Samuel Kirkland 
James Dean 
James Montgomery 
Daniel Lane 
John Mercer 
Willm Pendleton 
Maylon Ford
Keogh Peebles
Oliver Wolcott, (Seal) 
Richard Butler,  (S) 
Arthur Lee,   (S) 

Onigwendohonji, [circle]
Tenighnatogon, [circle]                
Mohawks
Oheadanghton, [circle] 
Kendringdon, [circle] 
Onondagas 
Tayagonendagighti [circle] 
Tehonwaseaghrigagi [circle]

Senecca
Otyadonenghti [circle] 
Dagageari, [circle]
Oneidas
Orig Oraghguendayon, [circle] 
Cayuga 

Ononghsawenghti, [circle]
Thagondawas
Tharondauragen, [circle]
Tuscaroras
Thoyenenshouhhi Seneca or Cors. O'Bail [circle]
List of Indians at Fort Stanwix (dated) October 22d, 1784




 Oneidas
 300


 Cougnewagas [?]
 20


 Oequesusnes [?]
 21


 Conasadauges [?]
 10


 Coll Louis Family
 15


 Chane's do
 6


 Capt D Sunckees
 21


 Oriscas
 73


 Onondagas
 5


 Tuscaroras
 63


 Shawnees
 11


 Mohawksickans
 25


 Stockbridge
 40


 Messanugas
 n- 7


 Oneida Cheifs
 2


 Senecas
 13


 Towlers Family
 4


 -Total
 613 

The above is the number present on the grounds.
(Signed) E
The Names of the Hostages —
Capt Aaron Hill 
Ohaudalighton 
Kaunontale 
Thayagouentagesthe 
Konayute 
Suscukaloani 

[stamped] THE CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY 
Treaty Copy &c
