---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 604
collections:
- James Monroe Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:57+00:00'
day: '11'
description: Henry Knox sends to James Monroe a letter that discusses British troop dispositions near Canada.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1784111100001'
omeka_image_id: 11152
images:
- 2169f448e42e009ee2db7311443619be22b991bf.jpg
- e1c7881684caaa5110c243c1b05a6f6ac9dff80f.jpg
- 0d60a5c8ce9e2578396ecc98d475b1e26fa24795.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- ordinance
notable_locations:
- Trenton
- Boston
- Fort Pitt
- Canada
notable_persons:
- James Monroe
- Henry Knox
- Mr. Partridge
- General Haldimand
- ordinance department
- militia
- congress
omeka_id: 37057
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- James Monroe
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Boston
title: British troop dispositions
year: '1784'
---



The honorable 
Colonel Monroe 
Member of Congress 
at[?] 
Trenton 
[docket in margin in another hand] 
1784 
Genl Knox
Boston November 11th 1784 
My dear Sir 
You may recollect that the hurry[?] and confusion, 
at the end of the session of Congress June last, ren- 
dered it impossible to obtain a proper explanation 
relative to myself. 
Congress directed me to disband the 
troops then in service, retaining some few for West Point 
and Fort Pitt, and to open a correspondence with Genl 
Haldimand in Canada, respecting the posts upon the 
frontiers.  They made an arrangement of the militia 
by which it would appear that after my correspondence 
with the British Commander in chief in Canada, should 
be terminated, I should have no further services to 
perform.  I felt then the awkwardness of my 
situation, but I have more amply experienced it 
since - 
The heads of departments who have retired 
since the peace have [indecipherable] with the approbation 
[indecipherable] Generals Duportail, Lincoln & Stark. 
But [indecipherable] involved with 
the [indecipherable] was disbanded the 2[?] of June, tho 
[indecipherable] of my retiring [indecipherable] marked 
that
Colonel Monroe
[accession note: Ac 11,934]
that my friends and Children will have much difficulty in 
determining the time I ceased to be a [indecipherable - Soldier?].  And certainly they 
will be unable to find the opinion of the Sovereign expressed 
upon my conduct as head of the ordnance department for 
nine years.  However conscious I may be of possessing good 
intentions during this command, it would be improper for 
me to express in what manner they have been executed.  If 
they have not sufficiently explained themselves, my ordeals 
have been in vain.  I have had some conversation with 
Mr. Partridge upon this subject but with no other person - 
I beg leave to rest the management of it with you and 
with him.
The delicate nature of this business will 
evince how deeply I am impressed with a sense of Your 
honor and friendship in so unreservedly committing myself 
to you - I shall be happy in receiving a line [indecipherable] 
acknowledging the receipt of this letter. 
I am my dear Sir 
With Much respect [indecipherable] 
Your Very humble 
Servant 
H Knox
