---
authors:
- Abraham Dehuff
collection_id: 782
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:58+00:00'
day: '05'
description: Discusses pay due and encloses an account. Includes memorandum of money received from states.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1785020570055'
omeka_image_id: 22941
images:
- e66af20df999fc3d0b28ebf05ec70565446674b7.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- account
- act of assembly
- years
- supernumerary pay
- petition
- entitled
- mistake
- accounts
- manner
- case
- stated
- settled
- matter
- knowledge
- mistakes
- pay
- pounds
- rations
- amount
- memorandum
- states
- memory
- sum
- depreciation
- receipt
- dollars
- amounts
- certificate
- balance due
notable_locations:
- Lancaster
- York
notable_persons:
- Joseph Howell
- Abraham Dehuffe
- servant
- George Weiss
- assembly
- house of assembly
- Colonel Atlee
- officers
- Colonel Miles
- Mr. Elias Boudenot
- Colonel Joseph Howell
omeka_id: 37137
page_start: '22'
recipients:
- Joseph Howell
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Lancaster
title: Pay due and accounts
year: '1785'
---



Lancaster Feby 5. 1785 Dear Sir
My friend George Weifs will wait on you to whom you will be so kind as to inclose the account as you find it as I am well assured you would not see me wronged if it say in your powers to prevent it. I should also be very glad if you'd be so kind as peruse the act of Assembly concerning the years supernumerary pay as I think hard to be excluded from the best if nothing can be done for me I do intend to petition the house of Assembly about it. Col. Atlee inform'd me that I was instilled to the land given to the officers. I should if you would inform me how that was and I shall return you many thanks besides paying you for your trouble and I shall remain as Usual your very Humble Servt. Abraham Dehusse Jos. Howell Junr. Esquire
I cannot help thinking that you have made a mistake in settling my accounts if I should be mistaken I will be the more obliged to you if you will inform me on what manner or case so that I may point out a method of righting myself in the whole ~
I have stated and settled the matter according to the best of my knowledge as followeth and hope you will aright the mistakes any you find. [undecipherable]
My pay due to me is from the 1st September 1776 to the first of January 1777 in Ten Pounds [undecipherable] the rations a [symbol for pound] 3.15 [undecipherable} adding the whole together comes to ------------- {symbol for pounds] 55.0.0
My pay from the 1st of January 1777 to the 10th of May 1778 is sixteen moths of Ten days at fifteen pounds [undecipherable] the rations at 3/9 [undecipherable] days is in the whole]336.17.6
concluded to the amount of } [symbol for pounds] 391.7.6
25 Memorandom of what I have received from the States according to the best of my memory if wrong you will please to rectify.
Received of Col. Miles in Oct 1777 when it was 3 for one the sum of one hundred pound which accruing to depreciation amounts to -------------- [pound symbol] 33..6..8
Received from COl. Atlee in Sept. 1778 when five for one the sum of 250 [pound symbol] amounting to .. ] 50.0..0
Myself Dr. to the State in Your Mpney 9.2 [pound symbol] which is about [pound symbol] 37.6.8 our State Money ] 87.6..3
Gave Mr. Elias Boudenot a recept for 20 dollr in May 1778 when it was five for one amounts to ---------} 1.10.0
Rece.d of Col. Jos. Howell a certficiate for 128[undecipherable] 19/10 dolls. amounting to ------- } 48.0..9 [pound symbol] 220..3..0 Balance Due me
