---
authors:
- Joseph Howell
collection_id: 782
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:58+00:00'
day: '06'
description: Discusses various issues relating to the pay of the officers and men, in particular those in Colonel Henry Lee's Legion.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1785020621055'
omeka_image_id: 22941
images:
- b8bb169705a3d9595f27bcaec377e9e2662a0c7a.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- accounts
- commanded
- account
- subsistence
- post
- roll
- January
- pay
- period
- regular returns
- musters
- March
- pay roll
- payments
- service
- dissolution
- gratuity
- war
- certificate
- fact
- certificates
- promotions
- appointments
- information
- enquiry
- alterations
- charges
- public books
- original roll
- hands
- time
- death
- due
- November
- balances due
- interest
- purchase
- returns
- settlement
- United States
- letter
- subject
- commutation
- certificates
- justifiable
- alteration
- note
- charges
- February
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Philadelphia
- the war office
- Charlestown
- pay office
notable_persons:
- Andrew Dunscomb
- Joseph Howell
- Captain Head
- officers
- Pennsylvania
- New York
- non-commissioned officers
- privates
- New Jersey
- Pennsylvania
- Delaware
- Legion
- Lieutenant Colonel Lee
- soldiers
- individuals
- men
- Army
- servants to officers
- Mr. Gordon
- riding master
- Captain Carnes
- Colonel Carrington
- Virginia Line
- Colonel Febiger
- Philip Roth
- volunteer
- Doctor Chas. Stokey
omeka_id: 37138
page_start: '23'
recipients:
- A.W. Dunscomb
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Pay of the officers and men
year: '1785'
---



Philada.. Feby. 6th.. 1785.
Captain Head will present you with the accounts of the Officers of Penn. of New Jersey also those for the non commission officers of privates of N.York. N Jersey Pennsylvania of Deleware late belonging to the Legion commanded Lt Col. Lee the account of substances of the Officers I send you last post. you will observe there is no Roll for N York prior to the 1 Jany. 1782 As, I am informed that state makes up the pay of their Officers and soldiers to that Period. These were no regular returns made to the was office of that Legion the musters of 1781 are all wanting and the latest in my possession were taken in March 1783. I have therefore been guided by the Old musters of 1780 for the commencement of pay the pay Roll herewith inclosed
26 Inclosed made at Charlestown in 1783 and the Payments made at the pay Office to individuals have also led me to consider the men in service to the dissolution of the the Army.
There are several Men that I have allowed pay a gratuity to that I could not find in the Musters, those Men it appears by Capt. Head were servants to Officers and was inlisted for the war, it will perhaps be necessary for you to procure apt. Head's Certificate on Honor to the Fat before you issue the Certificates the Men have received their pay for 1783. The promotions and appointments of the Officers are taken from the Information of Cap. Head, you will make further inquiry on this head and make such alterations as may be found necessary - Mr. Gordon the riding Master died. I believe some time in 1783 it is supposed before the [undecipherable] Mr. pay was drawn as there does not appear any charges against him in the public Books, his pay for 1782 (100 dollars) is supposed to have been drawn by Capt. Carnes, the Original Roll I am not able to lay my hands upon, I have therefore left Mr Gordons Account open from the 1st Jan. 1782 if the time of his Death can be ascertained beforeI close this I will mention it and you may add what appears due him. You will observe the pay of the penn. officers is made from the 1 Jan 1782 to the 15th Nov. 1783 this I was under the necessity of Doing as the had received more in 1783 than their whole pay amounted to therefore the several Ballances due them will bear interest from 1st January 1783 also the pay of gratuity of the Non commission Officers of privatesfo N. Jersey Penn. & Delaware are joined together as severals are charged with. If our purhcase of Col. Carrington amounting [undecipherable] that their gratuity. You will be carefull in examining those.
27
Returns with the Returns of the Virginia Line [undecipherable] least settlement may take place to the injury of the U. States. Inclosed you will receive a letter from Col. Febiger on the subject of his commutation and the Certificates you will please to transmit me - I have allowed gratuity to Philip Roth a volunteer who continued in service to the end of the War justice Demands he should receive it, but I am not certain whether I am justifiable in so doing you will consider it and act accordingly. If any alteration are made by you in those accounts please to inform me that I may notice them An Dunscomb Esq. Jos. Howell Jun
Note sent the charges against Dr. Char homey[unsure of spelling] by the Post 15th Feby. 1785 Jos. Howell Jun.
