---
authors:
- A.W. Dunscomb
collection_id: 782
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:58+00:00'
day: 08
description: Asks what number of Brigadier Generals are considered entitled to pay.
doc_types:
- Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1785020870155'
omeka_image_id: 22941
images:
- ec5bac65efdee9e4ea172e8730049c3b442a25db.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- certificates
- accounts
- resolve of Congress
- pay
- claims
notable_locations:
- Richmond
- Winchester Virginia
notable_persons:
- Joseph Howell
- Andrew Dunscomb
- Daniel Morgan
- Weedon
- Lieutenant Colonel Neville
- Legion
- Mr. Pierce
- Peter Muhlenburg
- Charles Scott
- Brevet officers
omeka_id: 37144
page_start: '28'
recipients:
- Joseph Howell
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Richmond
title: Number of Brigadier General pay entitlements in Virginia
year: '1785'
---



Richmond Feby. 8 1785 Dear Dir
You will be pleased to inquire at the War office what number of Brig. General were endeared of this State intitled to pay [unknown symbol] till Novermber 15. 1783. Two claims I have adjusted (viz) Weedon and Daniel Morgan; tow other I expect will, Peter Muhlenburg and Char Scott. I am not clear whether they are all untitled to full pay. As to the first mentioned, he was permitted to active retaining Rank, the second had charge of prisoners till late in the war, the third was commanding General in the state, and at Winchester, and the last I know not of suppose equally entitled, however you will attend at the war Office, and advise me of the propriety of their claims for should the first or either be wrong styled information may be immediately given to correct the error 
31 error, or present One. Have you settled with any Brevet. Officers, and have you allowed pay agreeable to such Brevit Commission? Lieut. Colonel Neville has such rank by such Commission, and Claims the pay thereof = Query, if a resolve of Congress of 30th April 1778 does not confine his claim to that of a Captain only? it will make some difference in the commutation (pay and all) near one thousand Dollars ~ advise with some learned and judged in this case and tie your result by first post I am Yours [unknown symbol] Jos. Howell Junr Esqr.
Aw Dunscomb
