---
authors:
- Peter Curtenius
collection_id: 782
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:58+00:00'
day: 09
description: Information on continental troops may be obtained by Joseph Gasherie. Mentions auditors and the liquidation of pay of Continental Troops. Discusses pay of New York militia officers while in
  captivity. Cannot designate who were continental and who were militia officers. Mentions settlements with Colonel Lee's legion. closes by discussing the falling of securities in New York.
doc_types:
- Letter
document_number: '1785020970155'
omeka_image_id: 22941
images:
- 608564f42f178937f719b85ba027addb3f69279b.jpg
month: '02'
notable_locations:
- New York
notable_persons:
- John Pierce
- Peter Curtenius
- auditor
- Colonel Lee's legion
- Militia
- continental troops
- Thomas Moffatt
note: Cited in Howell to Curtenius, 02/21/1785.
omeka_id: 37146
page_start: '32'
recipients:
- John Pierce
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Payment of Continental troops and New York militia
year: '1785'
---



34/ New York Feby. 9th 1785
Sir
Your favors of the 25 Novr. & 19th Jany. last with there enclosures I have received. ~ The information you want concerning any settlement which have been made with the Continental troops of the line of this State can only be obtained from Joseph Gasherie, Thomas Moffatt & John Herrings Esq. who are the Auditors appointed by law to settle the depreciation of pay due to the troops of this State in the service of the U States ap to the first Augt..1780 ~ The same persons are also appointed to Liquidate the accounts of our Continental troops from the first of August 1780 to the first of January 1782. To the above named Gentlemen you will therefore be plased to apply for any information that may be wanting in any settlement you may want to make with the Continental troops of our state, and for any information you may want which relates to the Militia or Levies of this State (whose accounts I am authorized to Liquidate) you will please to apply to me ~ Inclosed is an Account of Monies advanced by our State to the Continental & Militia Officers of the State during the time they were in Captivity. I have it not in my Power positively to designate which were Continental or Militia Officers & therefore have sent you the whole list, & if any Militia Officers through ignorance should apply to you for settlement you will please to refer them to me, & if the Continental Officers or soldiers should apply to me I shall refer them to you office
35 Office for a final settlement when you will have an opportunity to make stoppages for the Monies they have received during the time they were in Captivity which has not been befour Auditors, & the reason they gave for it was because the law did not authorise them to do it. To save you writing & to expedite your Settlement with Col. Lees Legion. I have obtained for you a Certificate from Mr. Gasherie which is endorsed on the back of the return you sent me which is Inclosed ~~ The Auditors inform'd if you would send them such a Certificate as the law requires (Copy of which Law is inclosed) they would settle with the men for the period therein mentioned which would be much more advantageous to the men because the securities of this State fell from 5/6 @ 6/ in the Pound & final settlements fetch only from 2/4 to 2/6 in the pound ~~
I am Sir Yours (undecipherable] John Pierce, Esq
Peter Aurtenius State Auditor
P.S. The Auditors for the Liquidating Accounts of the Continental troops of this State for the period mentioned in the Act will set at Capt. Strongs for 3 or 4 weeks after which they will return to their places of abode in the Country ~
My Residence is fixtin N. York P. T. Curtinieus
