---
authors:
- Jonathan White
collection_id: 782
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:58+00:00'
day: 08
description: Discusses pay accounts of the German Regiment. Discusses various other issues regarding the war office's financial accounts. Discusses the settlement of two officer's accounts.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1785020870055'
omeka_image_id: 22941
images:
- 66511a932c8cf873a69bf76181f3b543a6406287.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- set
- German musters
- dates
- enlistment
- service
- office
- time
- dissolution
- line
- regular returns
- event
- January
- August
- settlement
- enlistments
- musters
- period
- presumption
- duty
- interim
- embarrassment
- arrears
- method
- letter
- tomorrow
- paper
- opportunity
- transactions
- present period
- registers
- account currents
- information
- originals
- deceptions
- point
- trouble
- business
- books
- original papers
- enclosures
- commutation
- next week
- papers
- Kitt's books
- attention
- lame
notable_locations:
- Annapolis
- Annapolis
- Philadelphia
- northward
- Continent
notable_persons:
- Joseph Howell
- Jonathan White
- men
- auditors
- soldiers
- German Regiment
- Mr. Green
- printer
- post officer
- agents
- Doctor Smith
- mate
- Kitt
- Doctor Howard
- Gaither
omeka_id: 37143
page_start: '26'
recipients:
- Joseph Howell
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Annapolis
title: Accounts of the German Regiment; officer accounts
year: '1785'
---



Annapolis Feby. 8th 1785
D Sir
If you can send me a set of German Musters taken in 1779 that contains the dates of the men's enlistment, I believe it will answer both mine and the auditors purpose, You will observe the service it renders my office when I tell you that may soldiers of that Regt at the time of its dissolution was drafted into the line, and my not having regular returns of it at the time this Event took place, nor indeed until January 1782, leaves nothing to assure me they
29 They were in Service the 1st.. of Aug..1780 the time at which I commence the settlement; but if possessed of their enlistment's, and comparing them with 1782 Masters, I find they were in service previous to the period above mentioned, and appear again on the January Musters of 1782, the presumption is strong they were in actual duty during the interim - You may apprehend the Embarrassment I labour under in closing the [undecipherable] of this line by being obliged to take this method in discovering the service of most of them for that time, the musters for which having been lost ~
This letter I expect will go tomorrow by Mr. Green printer and post officer in this place, he expects to bring a Quatity of Paper from Philda, and it will be a good opportunity to forward those for which I wrote in a former letter if not already on there way ~ I had closed all my transactions to the present period, and had prepared to send you the Registers and Account Currents, by Mr. Green but have postponed it on the receipt of your last letter -That I may be enabled to give the agents such information from the Originals as will be most likely to detect the Deceptions you mention in Practice to the northward ~ Should the attempt be made hereafter those that are to be issued here - I shall make it a point to occasion as little trouble to you as possible, but it will become necessary often to apply as this business is so complicated
=ted and extensive it will be impossible to determine many things otherwise than by recurring to the Books at large and Original papers ~

Jos. Howeell Junr. Esq. I am Your's [undecipherable] John White
11th This moment received your's of the 7th Int and it enclosures, I settled with Doctor Smith as mate on by & allow'd him no Coummutation Mr. Green does not set out yet, I believe he will next week, & I wish you to have the papers, ready among the Rest Kitt's Books - The papers of Doctr. Howard are also wanted - I must beg your attention about Gaither as he is going to lead the Continent and is pressing hard for a settlement - Kitt is now by me in bed, and sends how dye fed he is well except lame
Jos. Howell Junr. Esqr. God Bless you J White
