---
authors:
- Joseph Howell
collection_id: 782
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:58+00:00'
day: '21'
description: Refers to accounts of Militia and Levies of New York. Mentions accounts of Doctor Henry Brewster, who was held in captivity. Encloses list of men of New York quota in Colonel Lee's Legion.
doc_types:
- Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1785022121055'
omeka_image_id: 22941
images:
- 81e1ad9252c0485444a404718584bc75d72201ee.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- certificate
- advances
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- New York
notable_persons:
- Peter Curtenius
- Joseph Howell
- Colonel Lee
- Doctor Henry Brewster
- militia
- New York
- auditors
- prisoner
- Mr. Pierce
- Levies
- Colonel McClaughey
- Mr. Moffat
omeka_id: 37154
page_start: '35'
recipients:
- Peter Curtenius
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Militia and Levies of New York; accounts of Doctor Henry Brewster
year: '1785'
---



37 Philada.. 21st. Feby. 1785..
I observe by your Letter of the q. Instant that the Accounts of the Militia and Levies of the State of N York are settled by you. Application has been made to me by Henry Brewster late a [undecipherable] Col. Mc. Claughry reft. for a settlement of his A/c from 1 Augt. 80 to time of his release from captivity this gentleman appears to have been of the Levies of your state his Depreciation has been settled as appears by a Certificate from Mr. Moffat to the August 80 you will please to inform me if those Accounts are Lequidated by you, for if they come under you notice it will be necessary to send you the Charges against those who were prisoners ~ I have compared the return transmitted me of Monies advanced the officers of your state with the public books and have inclosed you a list of those who have had settlement, with Mr. Pierce it appears the advances made the have not been credited. The Omission I presume maybe rectified by calling in the Certificates granted by the Auditors of your state to those Gentlemen - As your residence is fixed in the City I have taken the Liberty to inclose you a list of the men of the Quota of the State of N. York late of Col. Lees Legion with a Certificate in their favour, which I request you will deliver to anyone of the Auditors mentioned in your Letter - and particularly Oblige
Peter T. Curtenius.
Jos. howell Junr.
[stamped in type states: Received from Auditor for the Interior Department, May 7 1895. R.P.O. 415343.]
