---
authors:
- Joseph Howell
collection_id: 782
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:59+00:00'
day: '18'
description: Believes that Roth is entitled to pay at a higher station. No Treasury Board formed; Mr. Gervais has resigned. Differs on the matter of Captain Armstrong and Doctor Irvine's certificates. Details
  the account of Captain Armstrong. Mentions Mr. Gordon's death and the invalid regiment.
doc_types:
- Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1785041821155'
omeka_image_id: 22941
images:
- 0092cd9d779ccd6157866dc972c5b37c2372ff4f.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- certificates
- advances
- resolve of congress
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Pennsylvania
- Cincinnati
- Richmond
notable_persons:
- Andrew Dunscomb
- Joseph Howell
- Society of Cincinnati
- Mr. Pierce
- Treasury Board
- invalid regiment
- Mr. Gervais
- Captain Armstrong
- Doctor Irvine's
- officers of line
- Colonel Carrington
- Major Brown
- Colonel Moylan
- Major Beatty
- Mr. Anderson
note: Cited in Dunscomb to Howell, 04/28/1785.
omeka_id: 37232
page_start: '80'
recipients:
- A.W. Dunscomb
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Roth's Pay as a soldier of infantry and sundry pay matters
year: '1785'
---



[upper left corner] 82/

Philada 18 April 1785

Dear Sir

Your favor of the 4th Inst with the Inclosures by Capt Heard came to hand on Friday last I observe you have al =lowed poor Roth only pay as a Soldier of Infantry, this I think is wrong as he acted in a Station superior in pay to a private and continued on that Station at the request of the Commanding Officer to the End of the War, fur- -ther, on settlement of the Accounts of the 4th Regt of Artil- -lery there were two Volunteers entered on the returns, and with the approbation of Mr. Pierce I granted them Serjants pay the same had been drawn for them in the payRolls, before. there is no Treasury Board formed and I understand Mr. Gervais has resign'd, therefore suppose it will be some time before they proceed to do any business indeed I do not think it worth while to say any thing to them on the subject ~ in my opini= on you have a right to judge of Roths Merit and grant him Gratuity - he is certainly deserving it. __ You must suffer me to differ in opinion with you in respect to the interest of Capt Armstrong & Doct.r Irvine's Certificates taking date the 1st Jany. 1783 you say "if one Contract is "not sufficient to discharge the Advances, consequent "ly the two must be put together and the Interest [far right corner] con = 
[upper right corner] 83 "commenc when the Debt became due and not before" on this I shall observe, that the overplus of the Year 1783 did not arise from their receiving more pay than the rest of the Officers of this Line but from their Commuta= =tion being granted to them without deducting their Orders in favor of the Society of Cincinnati [undecipherable] for the 5 1/2 Mos. pay given them by the Sate of Penn.a which sums were omitted being charged by me _ if those Sums had been deducted (which should have been done) there would have been a balance on their Accounts of 1783. In order to convince you that those Certificates should bear Interest from the 1st Jany. 1783 I have stated (as below) the Account of Capt. Armstrong-

His pay for 1782 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 600. [undecipherable] of Genl. Green _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 13300 Clothing for Jn.o Hamilton _ _ _ _ 12460 Balance due on Interest from 1 Jan [editor's note: 258 over 342] His pay to 15 November 1783 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 525 Rec. Of Jn.o P Dart _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 50 the State of Penn.a _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 275 the pay [undecipherable] Genl. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 150 Goods of Col. Carrington _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 2648 One Horse of D.o _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 80 [undecipherable] for Cincinnati _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 50 [editor's note: written next to 50] 631:48 [editor's note: in far right corner] leaves 
[upper left corner] 84/ leaves a Bala. of 106 48/90 dollars due the U.S. carried to his Debit in [undecipherable] of 1782 leaves the sum of 235 42/90 dollars due Captain Armstrong. on interest from 1 January 1783 - from the above I flatter myself you are fully convinced you have wronged those Gentlemen out of 10 1/2 months interest - and were I in their Situation, I should demand my Certificate, agreably to first Settlement. [sweeping line flourish across page]

Inclosed you will receive a Certificate of the time of Mr Goordons de^ath - the Gentleman who signd it is known by me to be possessed of veracity _ you may close Mr. Gordons account. [sweeping line flourish across page]

The certificates belonging to those of the invalid Regiment, southward of this, were put into the hands of Col. Nichola, and by [undecipherable] left in the hands of Captain McConnell of this City. Those of Colonel Moylans, into the hands of Majors Bowen and Beatty agents for this Line, and those of General Armands Captain DeBerrt Received and issued to the men of said Legion, except to a few who he informed me were deserted. - As the agens have Receipted to Mr. Pierce for those certificates and are to account to him and the State, Insuch quere whether they would part with them in the manner you mention. -

If any resolves of Congress are put into [undecipherable word in far right corner] 
my hands for you they shall be forwarded. [sweeping line flourish]

Mr. Anderson waited on me a few days since and presented me with a buckle for your honor, for which I paid him 46.o and returned the Buckle, he informing me there was an opportunity of sending it among other matters and things of his - going to Richmond [sweeping line flourish]

Yours. [signed] M. Howell And.w Dunscomb Esq.r
