---
authors:
- Josiah Harmar
collection_id: 973
collections:
- Alfred T. Goodman Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:19:59+00:00'
day: '01'
description: Encloses monthly return of Pennsylvania and New Jersey troops in service and a report of Ensign Armstrong's patrols along the Ohio River. Armstrong describes the local inhabitants and settlers
  and requests more time and support.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1785050190001'
omeka_image_id: 18292
images:
- 4bc1342cec51ce797425fc8eefcc5a0ddb1bcdb7.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- Provisions
- Weather
- Report
- Petitions
- return
- public service
- subsistence
- weather
- march
- petitions
notable_locations:
- Pennsylvania
- New Jersey
- Fort McIntosh
- Wheeling
- Ohio River
- War Office
- Albany New York
- Fort Schuyler
- Indians
notable_persons:
- Richard Henry Lee
- Lieutenant Colonel Josiah Harmar
- Ensign Armstrong
- Pennsylvania Troops
- New Jersey Troops
- Commissioners for Indian Affairs
- 1st American Regiment
- Settlers
- Congress
- Pennsylvania Troops
- New Jersey Troops
- Lieutenant Colonel Fisher
- Indians
- prisoners
- settlers
- Congress
- President of Congress
note: In unbound journal marked "correspondence of General Josiah Harmar transcribed by the War Department 1812."
omeka_id: 37252
recipients:
- Richard Henry Lee
repositories:
- Western Reserve Historical Society History Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Fort McIntosh
title: Monthly Return for Pennsylvania and Jersey Troops; Requests More Exploration Time
year: '1785'
---



Public Service
Lieutenant Colonel Fisher
at Albany
War Office
forwarded from Albany 
by Mr. [Abed?] [illegible]
War Office Oct 7th 1785
Respecting Prisoners and Indians at Fort Schuyler and their subsistence
Duplicate
[stamped:  Not to be reproduced without written permission of The Western Reserve Historical Society 10825 East Boulevard Cleveland, Ohio  44106]
Fort McIntosh
May 1, 1785

C   Sir,
I have the honor to enclose to your Excellency a monthly return of this date of the Pennsylvania and Jersey Troops in the service of the United States.) 
In obedience to the Instruction received from the honorable, the Commissioner for Indians Affairs, upon their departure from this Post, I have to inform your Excellency that I detached Ensign Armstrong with a party of twenty men furnished with fifteen days provisions, on the 31st March last to disposes sundry persons who had presumed to settle on the Capital of the United States on the Western side of the Ohio River.
9.. The inclosed copy of the instructions together with his orders were posted up at Wheeling and distributed throughout the different parts of the country, in order that all persons might be fully acquainted herewith.  
Ensign Armstrong having marched with his party as far down as opposite Wheeling, which is about seventy from hence, presuming the course of the river, and executing his orders (excepting a few indulgances granted on account of the weather) returned on the 12th ulto.  
I have the honor of enclosing to your Excellency his report with sundry petitions handed him by the settlers, likewise the opinion of some reputable inhabitants on the eastern side of the river with respect to them.

On the 20th ult. I received the
inclosed representation signed by 66 of them, praying for a further indulgence of time, and [illegible] that they had sent, on a petition to Congress about the subject.  
In answer to which I thought it most expedient to grant them one month from the 21st ulto to remain themselves at the expiration of which time, parties will be detached to drive off all settlers within the distance of one hundred and fifty miles from this garrison, which in my present situation is all that is practicable.  
The number of settlers lower down the river is very considerable, and from all accounts daily increasing.  
I would therefore (before I proceed further in the business) beg to know the pleasure of your Excellancy, and your particular orders upon the subject.  I have the honor to be,
11  With the highest esteem and respect, Your Excellancy's Most Hbl and obt Servt, 
Jos Harmar, Lt Col Comd 1st Amer Regt. 
His Excellancy
Richard Henry Lee
President of Congress 
[stamped:  This material may be protected by Copyright Law, Title 17, U. S. Code The Western Reserve Historical Society 10825 East Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio  44106]
