---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 973
collections:
- Alfred T. Goodman Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:00+00:00'
day: '18'
description: Discusses terms for Col. Harmar's corps, with desires to move them further down the Ohio, with a post near the Scioto. Explains the inability of the state of Pennsylvania to retain troops there,
  and the wishes of the President and Congress that the men reenlist. Request that Harmar maintain his men until the vote. Requests all recruits--a mix of artillery and infantry--to march to Fort McIntosh.
  No return from Connecticut. Jersey Legislature will not reassemble before September, but Harmar will proceed as ordered.
doc_types:
- Contemporary Copy of Letter
document_number: '1785071800001'
omeka_image_id: 18393
images:
- a44e4180387c2b7f6c0be2fed12dd9ad56ff800a.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- Artillery
- Infantry
- Supplies
- Treaty
- Enlistments
- Corps
- Provisions
notable_locations:
- War Office
- Ohio River
- Scioto River
- Fort McIntosh
- Connecticut, New Jersey
- Pennsylvania
notable_persons:
- Richard Henry Lee
- Henry Knox
- Josiah Harmar
- Congress
- Pennsylvania Legislature
- New Jersey Legislature
- President
- Council
- Recruits
note: In unbound journal marked "correspondence of General Josiah Harmar transcribed by the War Department 1812."
omeka_id: 37373
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Richard Henry Lee
repositories:
- Western Reserve Historical Society History Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Discusses Terms for Col. Harmar's Corps; Seeks Recruits
year: '1785'
---



[in upper right corner in another hand: 47.]
War Office. July 18. 1785.
Sir,
I beg leave to state to your Excellency 
and Congress, that the terms for which the 
Corps under Lieut Colonel Harmar is engaged, 
will expire generally in the course of next 
month, and totally expiring in a very few instan- 
-ces in September.  It appears to be the 
sense of Congress that Colonel Harmars Corps 
should move further down the Ohio, and agre- 
-ably thereto orders have been transmitted to 
him from this Office for that purpose, 
and that he should take post somewhere 
near the mouth of the Scioto.  This order 
was conditioned to take place as soon 
as he could be supplied with provisions, 
which is now pretty certain cannot be until 
the 1st of September, a period at which he
will have but few men.
The legislature of Pennsylvania, 
not being to meet until the 23d August, 
no effectual measures can be adopted by the 
President and Council of that State to retain 
the men or any part of them until that time, 
although it is the wish of the President and 
Council that the men should not be dis- 
-banded until new orders are issued to re- 
-inlist them, and they have given it as their 
opinion to Colonel Harmar, to keep the men 
together until the vote of the Legislature can 
be taken, and they have informed me, if an 
order for disbanding those Troops should be given, 
many very considerable inconveniences will result 
from the measure. 
I have considered that Colonel 
Harmars Corps could not from the short time 
of service be employed on the Treaty and
[in upper right corner in another hand: 49]
I have ordered all the recruits of this state 
(about 50 in number) to be in readiness to 
march to Fort McIntosh by the 25th Instant.
This circumstance deranges exceedingly 
the recruiting Business here and as a larg pro- 
portion of the men have been engaged for the 
Artillery, the company must be a mixture of 
Artillery and Infantry.
No returns has been received of any men 
being recruited in Connecticut. 
The Legislature of Jersey will not as- 
-semble before September and therefor there can 
be no expeditions from that State. 
If Congress upon considering this state- 
-ment should be of opinion that it would be 
probable that Colonel Harmar could retain a 
sufficient number of his present Corps to answer 
the purpose of the Indian Treaties I submit 
to them the propriety of passing a resolve,
enabling him to retain them on the present estab- 
-lishment, until the Treaties shall be accomp- 
-lished. 
An Officer of Colonel Harmars is here and 
could immeidately be dispatched with the orders 
of Congress. 
I have the honor to be with the highest respect, 
Your Excellencys, 
Most Obed. Hble. Servt. 
H. Knox.
His Excellency 
The President of Congress.
