---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 981
collections:
- Nicholas Fish Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:01+00:00'
day: '22'
description: Secretary at War, Henry Knox, orders Lieutenant Colonel Nicholas Fish, Commander of New York troops, to detach Captain Doughty's company of artillery to support the Commissioners of Indian
  Affairs at the treaties.  This is an execution order.  Chain of command, route of  march, and logistical support necessary for movement of forces is established by this letter.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1785072200001'
omeka_image_id: 18938
images:
- 9e9ff1477b5b93d788d62cd2ba81244458240011.jpg
- 302a375be8555076726b7ff0563da9980df37c40.jpg
- aaab6f107540fe5e8eda1838f9fe09a61b869e80.jpg
- 46698c71fcddd77a1c4de86c558227dfac500348.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- Western Posts
- horses
- baggage
- stores
- water conveyance
- treaties
- artillery
- troops
- march
- public safety
- orders
- chain of command
- logistics
- route of march
notable_locations:
- New York
- War Office
- New Windsor
- Easton
- Reading
- Lancaster
- Carlisle
- Ohio River
- Fort McIntosh
notable_persons:
- Nicholas Fish
- Henry Knox
- Captain Doughty
- Captain O'Hara
- Commissioners of Indian Affairs
- Lieutenant Colonel Harmar
- contractors
omeka_id: 37382
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Nicholas Fish
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Request for military support for the Commissioners of Indian Affairs
year: '1785'
---



Public Service 
Lieutenant Colonel Fish 
Commanding the Troops 
of 
New York 
War Office 
[Docket in margin in another hand] 
War Office July 22nd. 1785 

From the Secretary at War, ordering the march 
of Major Doughty's compy

War Office July 22d. 1785 

Sir 

You will immediately give orders that the new raised company of Artillery belonging to your Corps and now stationed at West Point begin their march on Monday next to the Frontiers, by way of New Windsor Easton Reading Lancaster and Carlisle. 

You will direct the Officer commanding the Company on his arrival at Fort McIntosh, to put himself under the orders of the Commissioners for Indian Affairs, and to respect the instructions they shall from time to time give during the holding of the Treaties for the pre==servation of good order and for the safety of the public Stores. 

You will procure Water conveyance for the Men to New Windsor, where two four horse Teams are ordered to be in readiness to carry the Baggage and Stores of the Company
to Lancaster. 

I have written to Captain OHara the Contractor for the Western posts, to provide in due time provisions and transportation for the Troops and Baggage from Lancaster to Fort McIntosh - this I expect he will immediately do, yet it may not be improper to prevent un==forseen delays on the march, that Captain Doughty send forward an Officer to ac= 
=celerate his Arrangements. 

I have been induced to order this Company to the Frontiers under the uncertainty of Colonel Harmar being able to retain a sufficient number of his Men for the protection of the Treaties -Should he however succeed in his endeavours, the Men so retained are directed to move with the Commissioners, and that Captain Doughtys Company will in that case be at liberty to take a position on the Ohio best calculated to advance the public good - Should Colonel Harmar on the other hand prove unsuccessful, Captain Doughty must then proceed with the Commissioners and afford them protection during the Treaties - 

Colonel Harmar being com==manding Officer of the Troops in the service of the United States, Captain Doughty is to consider him as such, and be governed accordingly by his orders. 

I am Sir 
Your Most Obedt. 
and very Hble 

HKnox


Lieut. Colonel Fish 
Commanding the Troops 
of New York
