---
authors:
- John Pierce
collection_id: 779
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:02+00:00'
day: '24'
description: The Commissioner of Army Accounts rejects the claim for pay made by Colonel James Easton.
doc_types:
- Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1785102521001'
omeka_image_id: 22349
images:
- 0b987c1eca2f46148b5646908a4be003d0da839b.jpg
- d5f9f8bf109d9310ce743dcaede548fd97cdf4d8.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- service
- time
- pay
- claims
- public
- resolutions
notable_locations:
- New York
notable_persons:
- Colonel James Easton
- John Pierce
- Army
omeka_id: 37502
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- James Easton
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Rejecting the claims of Colonel James Easton
year: '1785'
---



To Col. Jas. Easton
Oct. 24th 1785
Copied [editor's note: "Copied" is circled]
[editor's note: lower left corner has "YZD03" as identifier.]
NYork October 24 1785.
Sir
I Received your Letter of the 16th Instant in which wherein you request a years pay, which I suppose you conceive yourself entitled to in consequence of the Resolution of July 16 1774 dismissing you from the Service. I have attended to that Resolution which you know [undecipherable] we had not at Litchfield when I saw you (which you know we had not at Litchfield when I saw you) & am of opinion that neither the spirit or the terms of it can entitle you to any further such allowance.
I find that you have received your pay to that the  aforementioned July 16th time you left the Service [undeciphered] and as you were not in Service at the time the public employ when the act was passed which of passing the resolution promiseing a depreciation to the Army, I do not conceive that you can possibly have any claim upon the Public. when you saw me at Litchfield of I am sorry that I am obliged to speak so unfavorably to you, as I believe your services at the commencement of the war entitle you to a some further consideration [undecipherable] which I should grant with cheerfulness were I authorized to do it.
Col. Jas. Easton.
[editor's note: This document has a printed identifier in the lower left hand corner:  "YZD03." The name "Col. Jas Easton" bleeds through the paper from the reverse side.]
