---
author_note: Joseph Clay
authors:
- Joseph Clay
collection_id: 779
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:03+00:00'
day: '23'
description: Joseph Clay writes the Commissioner of Army Accounts, thanking him for taking the trouble to settle his accounts. Discusses pay issues and vouchers. Also mentions specie payment.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1785122370101'
omeka_image_id: 22964
images:
- 1ef4e23c2d1e3dafdf7ab2870eb116d2af6e1870.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- pay
- accounts
- vouchers
- specie payment
- state money
- continental money
- money value
- bills
- supplies
- warrant
- emission
- passage
notable_locations:
- Russell
- Savannah
- Georgia
- Charleston
- Charlotte
- North Carolina
- Maryland
notable_persons:
- John Pierce
- Joseph Clay
- Major Habersham
- Alexander
- General Greene
- Joseph Clay
- Commissioner of Army Accounts
- Mr. Thomas
- Colonel
- Carrington
- lady
- daughter
omeka_id: 37607
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: John Pierce
recipients:
- John Pierce
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Savannah
title: Letter to the Commissioner of Army Accounts
year: '1785'
---



1


 Savannah the 23d of Decr. 1785

Dear Sir
Per Major Habersham I had
the pleasure of receiving your
esteem'd favours of the 12th October,
and am extreamly oblig'd to you for
the trouble you have taken respecting
my Accounts - inclosed are some remarks
respecting them - as to my not taking
my pay as it became due it was
hardly ever in my power, until
Money became of so little value, that
was it was not worth my while.
in Georgia I had none but the
State money, which rarely bore a
nearer Value to, Continental State Money than
as two to one, I mean at the time
I had any of it in my hands, nor
was I ever inform'd with any
certainty what my pay was to be
2

I was always assured that it would
be respectable, & fully adequate to
the trouble & trust - the nominal
sum wou'd rarely have paid a 
Boy for copying my Accounts, as
to the Bills it was with great
reluctance, & from necessity only,
that I was induced to make use
of any of them, or rather their
Proceeds, on my own Accounts, as
they were appropriated principally
for the purpose of procuring
supplies — those now in my possess.
I presume from the tenor of your 
Letter it is expected I shall apply
the to my own Use & which I shall
accordingly do — I am now writing to
Charleston precis respecting the
Warrant for 129,100 to obtain some
further Voucher respecting it to
serve in case of necessity — the
3

Money of the New Emisson I left at Charlotte
in N Carolina is in the hands of a Mr
Thomas Commander Russell, a Man of
integrity & Character I received a letter
from him lately acknowledging to have
the exact sum in has hands 57,600 Dollars,
wch he received from Mr Alexander in
Augt. 1782 & that he had informed
Genl Green & Coll Carrington respecting
the same who he Says promised to
advise me herewith - I have given no
directions respecting it as yet, as I
presume it must go Northerly, & there
or must be some risque in Ordering it
here I have rather been at a loss.
I shou'd have no objection to receive
my Ballance out of this Money at
any rate it is Carrn. in Maryland,
provided it is so, but of that I have
no information, though if Specie is
obtainable it is in every view
more desirable - we have nothing new
4

at all your Friends that I [undecipherable]
well. Major Habersham had a very
long passage himself Lady & Daughter
were & are very hearty. I am [undecipherable]
Compliments of the approaching Season
& great regard




Dr Sir



 Your Most Obed. Serv



Joseph Clay


From Jos. Clay Esquire
Decemb: 23d. 1785.


John Pierce Esqr.
