---
authors:
- Thomas Jefferson
collection_id: 1013
collections:
- Thomas Jefferson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:03+00:00'
day: '12'
description: Jefferson discusses Greene's inquiries regarding the sale of a ship and his arrangements for selling live oaks to European governments. Jefferson also discusses the piracy of the North-African
  Barbary states and the effect of piracy on U.S. commerce
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1786011290001'
omeka_image_id: 9207
images:
- c9a9d966c383e617389a8dd77ca447fe89a8530e.jpg
month: '01'
notable_items:
- enquiries
- frigate
- sold
- price
- live oak
- wood
- commercial arrangements
- want of confidence
- American whale oil
- guinea
- ton
- commerce
- trade
- hostilities
- vessels
- cargo
- crew
- tribute
- piracies
- freedom of navigation
- impost
- powers
- enormities
notable_locations:
- Paris
- Berlin
- France
- Portugal
- European Seas
notable_persons:
- Nathaniel Greene
- Thomas Jefferson
- French government
- St. John
- M. de La Fayette
- Emperor of Morocco
- Barbary states
- Algerines [Algerians]
omeka_id: 37641
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Nathaniel Greene
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Paris
title: Piracy of the Barbary States, Etc.
year: '1786'
---



[in another hand:] 1786, Jan 13.]
[illegible stamp superscribed "13"]
Dear Sir                     Paris Jan. 18. 1785. [in another hand:] [1786]
Your favour of home [?] & did not come to hand till the 3d of September. I immediately made enquiries on the subject of the fri-gate you had authorized your [undecipherable] to sell to this government, and I found that he had long before that sold her to government, and sold her very well as I understood.  I asked the price on the back of your letter, which I have since unfortunately mislaid so that I cannot at this moment state to you the price. but the [undecipherable] is of solong standing that you cannot fail to have received advice of it.  I should without delay have given you this information but that I hoped constantly to be able to accompany it with in- formation as to the live oak, which was another object of your letter. this tho' it has been evidently procured [?] by mr [?] St. John, and also by the M. de la Fayette since his return from Boston, has been spun [?] to a great lenth, & at last they have only decided to send to you for samples of the wood. letters on this subject from the M. de la fayette accompany this.
Every thing in Europe is quiet, & promises quiet for at least a year to come. we do not find it easy to make commercial ar-rangements in Europe. there is a want of confidence in us. this country has lately reduced the duties on American whale-oil to about a guinea & a half the ton, and I think they will take the 
greatest
Majr. Gl. Greene
greatest part of what we can furnish. I hope therefore that this branch of our commerce will resume it's activity. I hope it [undecipherable] a disposition to [undecipherable] our trade; but this has for some time been discouraged by the hostilities of the proportional [?] states of Barbary. The Emperor of Morocco who had taken one of our vessels, immediately consented to respond hostilities, & ultimately gave up the usual cargo [undecipherable]. I think we shall be able to settle matters with him. but I am not sanguine as to the Algerians. they have taken two of our vessels, and I fear will ask such a tribute for a forbearance of their piracies as the U.S. would be unwilling to pay. when this idea comes across my mind my faculties are abso-lutely suspended between indignation & impotence. I think what-ever sums we are obliged to pay for freedom of navigation in the Eu-ropean seas, should be levied on the European commerce with us, by a separate impost, that these powers may see that they [undecipherable] these committees [?] for ther own life.
I have the honour to be with sentiments of the most perfect esteem & respect Dear Sir
your most obedient 
and most humbl servt.
Th. Jefferson
