---
authors:
- John Pierce
collection_id: 779
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:03+00:00'
day: '16'
description: Discusses several officers' accounts, accounting records, and the disposition of pay certificates.
doc_types:
- Autograph Draft Letter
document_number: '1786011621101'
omeka_image_id: 22722
images:
- 6132f9db2b9cc67286613a7f259877fe6b77edc5.jpg
month: '01'
notable_items:
- representation
- resolution
- registers
- letters
- account
- information
- charges
- remarks
- certificates
- balances
- orders
- accounts
notable_locations:
- New York
- Pay Office
- Elk
- Treasury
notable_persons:
- John White
- John Pierce
- General Smallwood
- Board of Treasury
- Congress
- Captain Michael Rudolph
- Dunscomb
- brother
- John Rudolph
omeka_id: 37650
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- John White
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Discusses Issues Related to Officer Pay
year: '1786'
---



New York Januy 16th 1786 —
Dear Sir!
I have laid the representation of General Smallwood, before
The Board of Treasury, as no less than a resolution of
Congress can counteract the one charging him with
the money received by [undecipherable] are [undecipherable]
your Letters of December 20 Ulto & the 6th Instant are
come to hand — the check Letters of the following numbers
are wanting in your Register from 82,669 to 82,675 I enclose are wanting. I wish
the remainder of your Registers may be forwarded as
soon as convenient - I have made out, and now enclosed
you a stating of Capt. Michl Rudolphs account in Lieut [undecipherable] 
as far as the information in this Office can be obtained - a
duplicate is also forwarded to MrDunscomb, and I have
desired him to check the same with his entries & make
such remarks charges or remarks as have been omitted
by me in the same, and forward it immediately to you.
for you to do the sums.  It is my wish (if it is in your
power) that you issue certificates to him his brother
Jno. Rudolph for the ballances which may be due to
hm, he having orders to receive them, if not that
you inform me him of it at the head of the Letter and forward the accounts to me
when you have enclosed me your whole Register, It
Mr White.
will be necessary that you stop your any further
issue — the numbers of those blank certificates items remaining
on hand you had best send me an account of
and send me the same by some very safe oppor-
[undecipherable]


Mr. White Jan: 16. 1786
(Copied)
Letter
1786
