---
authors:
- Paul R. Randall
collection_id: 1013
collections:
- Thomas Jefferson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:06+00:00'
day: '14'
description: Randall declares that he will be governed by  his orders and will do his best to fulfill them and hopes that the circumstances will be considered if his services are not equal to expectations.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1786051490001'
omeka_image_id: 9208
images:
- d346d348434661ba3ae50e47348f71f2353bd4ea.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- secure opportunity
- copy of letter
- observations
- quarantine
- orders
- duty
- intelligence
- Spanish treaty
- war
notable_locations:
- Barbary states
- Madrid
- Carthagena
- Spain
- Algiers
- Alicant
- New York
- Portugal
- Naples
notable_persons:
- Paul R. Randall
- Thomas Jefferson
- John Adams
- father
- Lamb
- Carmichael
- envoys
note: Largely illegible.  Listed in the Thomas Jefferson Papers at the Library of Congress as Paul Randall to American Peace Commissioners (http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.mss/mtj.mtjbib001932)
omeka_id: 37847
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Thomas Jefferson
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Medina
title: Report on the Barbary States
year: '1786'
---



[1786, May 14]


 Madrid, May 14th 1786


 27

Since my Arrival from Carthagena. I
have been in constant Expectation of a secure
Opportunity  for forwarding the enclosed, being
nearly the Copy of a Letter I wrote to my Father
shortly after my landing in Spain.  It
contains all the Observations I have been
enabled to make by Reason of the Obstacles which
in my Situation at Algiers prevented
particular Enquiry.  Indeed I had not the
most distant Idea of remaining for so
short a time: — otherwise perhaps I might
have afforded greater Satisfaction in this Respect.

I have not received any Letters from
Mr Lamb since his arrival at Alicant
but have lately heard that he is released from
Quarantine — he may therefore be expect
here every Day — as he had informed Mr
Carmichael of his Intention of coming up immediately.

I shall be governed by his Orders &
endeavor Still to evince that nothing on
my part has been, or shall be wanting to
fulfill my duty — although I must hope
that Circumstances will be considered if my 
Services have not been equal to the expectation formed of them.

Haste, and the little Opportunity 
I have had to prepare my Observations — 
as well as the Manner of writing in a Croud.
I Must will plead my Apology, for deliver
ing them in this present State — especially
as my Father might have communicated in
New York the Intelligence they contain, 
I have therefore conceived that Alterations
might be improper — as your
Excellencies will distinguish what is well founded
and  be enabled to Judge what Opinion
may be formed on them in New York.
        The Envoys from Portugal & Naples
are Still at Carthagena awaiting the Completion of the Spanish treaty.
        This Court would under treaty have 
wished Mr. Lamb to remain in like manner
if his Instructions or could have justified
the Delay before their Interference
could consistent with their own Interests be
employed in favor of the United States.
The Portuguese Envoy told me at Carthagena
that he had no Expectations of Succeeding
— and would rather See a Confederacy
formed against the Barbary States — by
those with whom they are at War. 
        He appeared much dissatisfied at being
so long delayed. It would be presumptuous
in me to offer any News  -- Mr Carmichael
being so must better enabled to offer
Information -- and will write by the present Occasions.
I am with proper Respect
your Excellencies
Most Obedient &
Humble Servant
P R Randall
Their Excellencies               
John Adams  and                
Thomas Jefferson Esquires Minnisters plenipotentiary from the United States of America at the Courts of Great Britain and France respectively
