---
authors:
- Major General Richard Butler
collection_id: 531
collections:
- Draper MSS-Frontier Wars MSS
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:07+00:00'
day: '02'
description: Speech made to Captain Beal regarding Indians and U.S. disputes over land with overtones of peace.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1786060290001'
omeka_image_id: 21049
images:
- 10ffae9af88ffc72668c9d3caefa0cb63ef23033.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- Indian affairs
- speeches
- great council
notable_locations:
- New York
- frontier
- territory
- North
- West
- Fort Pitt
notable_persons:
- Richard Butler
- Captain Beal
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- Congress
- Six Nations
- Shawanoes
note: text is mostly illegible.
omeka_id: 37900
page_start: '1'
repositories:
- 'State Historical Society of Wisconsin: Archives Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Speech of Richard Butler
year: '1786'
---



N York June 2d, 1786
In consequence of a resolution of Congress of the 24th day of May —
[undecipherable] respecting  Capt o Beal & his party & directing the Commissrs.
of Indian affairs to take [vedor the son ?!] - General Butler their man
and made a speech to Capt o Beal which is as follows (the 
speech to be inserted.) —
To which he made the following answers.
"Butler, I believe that Congress now have done every
thing which I wished do be done. It only remains with the
Six Nations to take their speeches and spread them
thus the nations who have not yet heard and to your
voice.
Brother I hope that you will be at Fort Pitt when I
return from the westward — That I may communicate
to you as well the sentiment of the six nations residing
in that quarter as the sentiments of the Six Nations, For
my part I will go to the Shawanose, And their man/ pointing to one of his people [undecipherable] and will [undecipherable]
make my communications to you at Fort Pitt myself.
When I return to the Six Nations there will be a great
Council and whatever is done at it you shall know. Nothing
shall be kept from you. I wish to set the hearts of
the Six Nations at ease while I look to the other nations - for
I shall exert myself to make everything right. I have
nothing to say more but to thank the great spirit for
permitting us to speak together this day on which we
are to part.
Delivered June 1st to General Butler
After having made the aforegoing speech he said
that he had one more request to make of Congress
which was that they would attend to what he
has said in their room requesting General Butler
shou'd be the person who shoud meet the [M]ohauks
together at Fort Pitt.
[uncertain symbol vaguely resembling an A]
Deld June 1st to General Butler
