---
authors:
- Joseph Howell
collection_id: 781
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:07+00:00'
day: '26'
description: Report on the service of Captain John Stevens, formerly of the Connecticut regiment and prisoner of the British during the Revolutionary War.
doc_types:
- Autograph Draft
document_number: '1786062621001'
omeka_image_id: 17053
images:
- 0e60650dce3a99592800440357e199cac5575ee2.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- performance of the articles
- certificate
- released
- exchange
- settlement
- account
- pay and disposition
- memorial
notable_locations:
- Army Commander's Office
- Connecticut
- Canada
notable_persons:
- Charles Thomson
- Joseph Howell
- prisoners
- John Stevens
- Connecticut Regiment
- prisoner
- British Troops
- hostages
- Captain Forster
- Legislature of the State of Connecticut
omeka_id: 37977
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Charles Thomson
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Army Commander's Office
title: Report on the Service of Captain Stevens
year: '1786'
---



The Commissioner for settling the Accounts of the late
Army, to whom was referred its Petition of
John Stevens, begs leave to report.
That Mr Jno Stevens was appointed a Captain in a
Connecticut Regiment in the service of the
United States on the 19' day of Januy 1776.
That he was made a Prisoner by the British Troops
at the Cedars in Canada on the 20' day of
May 1776 in the same year.
That he was one of four Captains, which were left
as Hostages for the performance of the Articles
of the Castel settled on the 27sup>x</sup> day May 1776.
between  the commander of the American
Army is Canada, and Captain Forster of
the British Troops.
That it appears from the certificate of discharge of the late
Commissary of Prisoners, that the British
for the a certifyed the copy of a certificate
given by Jos the British Comy of Prisoners,
that these Hostages were not considered by the
British as released until the 17' day of Feby
1782 when an exchange took place in line
of the one of May 1776.
Capt Jno. Stevens has not received any
settlement of his accounts in any of the
Offices of the United States.
That he did in May last apply by Memorial to the
legislature of the State of Connecticut, for the
settlement of his accounts for pay & depreciation
agreeably to the recommendation of Congress
on their act of the 25' day of May 1781 - which
Memorial was negatived by the said
Legislature.
Whereupon your Commissioner begs leave
to submit them f for the to [undecipherable] the
following proprity and justice of referring
the Claims of Capt Stevens for pay & depreciation to one
of the Officers of the United States, intead
of their referrences to the State to which 
he belonged at the time of his becoming
named on the act of May 28 1781 to the state in
where in whose line he served at the time
of his becoming an Hostage.
[in margin]6.26.86
All which is humbly submitted.
[undecipherable]
