---
author_note: John Pierce
authors:
- John Pierce
collection_id: 783
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:07+00:00'
day: '06'
description: Informs the Secretary of Congress of a report by the Commissioner for Settling the Accounts of the Army regarding Lt. Col. Pannell and Col. Elbert of the Georgia Line. The commissioner makes
  a judgment on the resignation of the former.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1786070621155'
omeka_image_id: 22943
images:
- f68e67699cf01582154da7d4323aa7b13570ffcc.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- Certificates
notable_locations:
- Office of Army Accounts
- Georgia
notable_persons:
- Charles Thompson
- John Pierce
- Secretary of Congress
- William Houston
- Pannell
- Elbert
- officers
- Georgia Line
note: '[Addressed to Charles Thompson, Secretary of Congress.]'
omeka_id: 38010
page_start: '66'
recipient_note: Charles Thompson
recipients:
- Charles Thomson
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Office of Army Accounts
title: Report by the Commissioner for Account Settlements
year: '1786'
---



(Report)

Office of Army Accounts. July 6.th 1786

The Commissioner for Settling the Acc.u of the Army to whom was refered the motion of the Honorable W. Houstoun of the 3. Instant begs Leave to Report.

That L.t Col.o Pannill of the Georgia Line was returned as having resigned his Commission on the first of January 1781 in an Arragement of the Line made out from the Regimental Books. the Musters and the Papers of the State. by the State Auditon. the principal Officers of the Line and your Commissioner.

That Col.o Elbert who commanded the Regiment has since Certified taht some time in 1778. Col.o Pannill Offered to resign but that his assignation was not Accepted & that Several Certificates are produced from the Officers of the Line that they never heard of this resignation and that they believe the report of his having done so was groundless. 
67.

Your Commissioner on a Consiferation of this Contradictory evidence given by the same Persons is of Opinion that the Arrangement on which Stated his resignation to be on the first of January 1781 ought to be Considered as binding becuse the Certificate of Col.o Elbert accertains only that he did not resign in 1778 but says nothing as to his Resignation in 1781 and the other Evidence goes only to a beleif of his Continuance in Service.

your Commissioner is further of Opinion that the Proof on which this resignation was grounded which must have been Affirmative ought to appear. that a proper Judgement may be formed of its Validity before the same can be set a side.

JP

Charles Thompson Esq.

Secy of Congress.
