---
authors:
- John Pierce
collection_id: 778
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:08+00:00'
day: '25'
description: Discusses a Major accused of counterfeiting certificates; notes that he will travel to New Hampshire tomorrow morning. Mentions Judge Sullivan, Judge Morris, and chief justices.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1786072521001'
omeka_image_id: 22272
images:
- 8101758accc08215e0b9e285684cb3d30f599057.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- warrants
- counterfeit
- certificates
- stage
- depositions
- apprehended
notable_locations:
- Boston
- New York
- gaol
- jail
- New Hampshire
- Providence
- Newport
- Rhode Island
- Portsmouth
notable_persons:
- John Pierce
- board
- Major Morrell
- agent
- New Hampshire Line
- Judge Sullivan
- Barnes
- Lovett
- Lovitt
- villain
- Phelon
- landlady
- chief justices
- Judge Morris
note: Recipient unknown; letter is partially illegible.
omeka_id: 38054
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: Board of Treasury
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Boston
title: Concerning Judiciary and Counterfeit Certificates
year: '1786'
---



July 25. 1786
Boston (Editor's note: illegible but most likely)  July 25. 1786
Gentlemen
I arrived here this morning before seven having left NYork at two on Saturday afternoon. The board may remember that the man who is now in Goal has said that a Major Morrill who acted as agent to NHampshire line coud clear up his character and he expects him soon to do it. [undecipherable] on the way [undecipherable] [undecipherable] of Judge Sullivan, who suspects this major as being the person who counterfeited the certificates. I am therefore induced to pursue my Journey tomorrow morning on to NHampshire instead of returning to NYork which I meditated to do, by setting out in tomorrow's stage _ the various depositions taken here account to but little more than to prove that Banner is a villain, and ought to be taken up. Mr Lovitt in Goal can inform where he is to be found. I shall obtain the deposition that Banner sold the cert [undecipherable] or, if possible by this Post_ I have taken up the man who ac-quired it and he is now on tryal.
Phelon has been gone somewhere serveral days his Landlady where he lodged which was fifteen miles from this supposes that he is gone to Providence or Newport + from thence to New York_ I have sent after him with proper directions to send him on, and now return the depositions on which the chief justices warrant is founded, that in case he shoud get to NYork before the warrant he may be apprehended. in the mean time I shall go on to Portsmouth. [undecipherable] [undecipherable], I I have taken the liberty to write the Board for the reason that I conclude Judge Morris is from town or the circuit. I am very respectfully Gentlemen your obdent
Jno Pierce
(Editor's note: Loopy pen trills under his name)
The Board will excuse the haste of this letter as I am in the midst of a Court and business.
