---
author_note: John Pierce
authors:
- John Pierce
collection_id: 783
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:08+00:00'
day: '07'
description: Letter from the Commissioner of Army Accounts discussing the counterfeited certificates, Major Amos Morril, and Governor Thomas Chittenden of Vermont.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1786080721355'
omeka_image_id: 22943
images:
- bfb80418f61ced9250aa3c2a41c8c3c386be539e.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- Certificates
- counterfeiting
notable_locations:
- Water Town
- Vermont
- New Hampshire
- Allen Town
- Boston
notable_persons:
- Simon Jackson
- John Pierce
- Thomas Chittenden
- governor
- Amos Morrill
- John Phelon
- Nicholas Gilman
omeka_id: 38097
page_start: '116'
recipient_note: Simon Jackson
recipients:
- Simon Jackson
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Water Town
title: Letter from the Commissioner of Army Accounts
year: '1786'
---



117
Authority there will undoubtedly deliver him to the Authority of Vermont undoubtedly deliver him to the Government of N. York_ in order to induce the latter. I have Written a Letter to Gov. Chittendon to use if you find Occasion. If You find that Phelan is gone into N. Hampshire_ I wish You to be very Attentive if he has any connexion with Major^ Amos Morrill, whether he has been at Epsom or near there to see him. + if you make any Material discoveries respecting Morrill I wish you as privately as Possible to Communicate them to Nicholas Gilman Esq. at Exeter You must use great caution in the whole of this business to keep yourself and your Views altogether a Secret for which Purpose you had better give out that you are going to some other part of the Country for some other business if you can find a good Conveyance I shall wish to be informed of every Material discovery you make from time to time direct your Letters to me at New York, there is a Geo. Evans at Allen Town in New Hampshire who was taken up in Boston for passing Counterfeited Certificates with whom Suspect Morrill is Connected. if You go near him I wish you to make as great a discovery of + from him as you can, whatever your reasonable expenses come to and for your time I will be myself Personally responsible for the payment.
I am 
JP
M. Simon Jackson
