---
authors:
- John Pierce
collection_id: 778
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:08+00:00'
day: '25'
description: The Commissioner of Army Accounts writes the President of New Hampshire on the subject of counterfeit certificates.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter of Undetermined Type
document_number: '1786082521201'
omeka_image_id: 22320
images:
- 6764dd20ec1254e99e8d7e6386169a81c7f344be.jpg
- 9f1ffdef0475a22436401773f1d8b8c322fb7fab.jpg
- f24568dcbec931692310d01645a56506c986a4b1.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- counterfeit certificates
- examination
- transaction
- public vices
- conviction
- defense
- justice
- contradictions
notable_locations:
- New York
- New Hampshire
- Boston
notable_persons:
- John Sullivan
- John Pierce
- governor
- Evans
- Bryant
- Commissioner of Army Accounts
- Governor of New Hampshire
- President of New Hampshire
- excellency
- Morrell
- lawyer
- Phelan
- Judge Sullivan
- Morrill
omeka_id: 38125
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- John Sullivan
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Regarding counterfeit certificates
year: '1786'
---



New York Aug. 25 1786
Sir
After I had the honor of waiting on you illegible phrase at your [Undecipherable 2 sentences]
the evidence which caused me to suspect that the major was concerned in dispursing of counterfeited certificates but the Court thought it improper to detain him to answer without more authentick proof. on my return to Boston I endeavored to provide proof that Morrill had prevaricated in his defense. when to [undecipherable] start [illegible] not pretend not to know Geo Evans befor Judge Sullivan. that the bundle of certificates which he presented to Bryant were the same as those found in his possession by the sheriff. to [undecipherable x2] endeavored to ascertain that the [undecipherable] is those offered to Bryant [undecipherable] were not filled up by Phelon, [undecipherable] which he Morrill himself acknowledged. whereas those found by the Sheriff were in Phelan's handwriting except a few filled in by myself. that Morrill did offer 2,000- 3000 Dols for sale contrary to what he aforded in his defence. that he did not do (Editor's note: sell?) the very same certificates to both word [undecipherable] to offered for sale to Bryant and that Bryants deposition ought to have weight not withstand-ing Morrill had contradicted it in some assintial points. To [undecipherable]the contradic-tions in which he involved himself in this defence, I hope that some of the Justices before
whom he was examined may be also present, when he shall be again taken + be questioned respecting his conduct. (Editor's note: The next 3 sentences are very hard to discern.) in order for which purpose b[undecipherable] d[undecipherable] that at the deposition laid befor these justices and also the further evidence when at Boston. Mass undecipherable may perhaps be able to
It may be necessary to observe that the deposition of Norris has much authenticity [undecipherable] by its corresponding [undecipherable] in several instances with the [undecipherable] instances I had before partly traded unknown to him tho I had not in some of those got so far as to prove he was the first person who sold the inkblot certificates. I have reason to believe that Geo Evans has been also employed by Morrill, if his evidence can be any way procured, it will undoubtedly tend to the clear conviction of Morrill + lay the whole of this dark transaction more open to public view.
(Margin note: Aug 25, 86)
I hope your Excellency will be able to influence the authority to use the most earnest exertions to bring the very person concerned to conviction, and that the Attorney General or some other able lawyer may be particularly interested on the occasion.
JP_
The President of the State of New Hampshire
