---
author_note: John Pierce
authors:
- John Pierce
collection_id: 783
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:08+00:00'
day: '26'
description: Letter from the Commissioner of Army Accounts regarding the case of the counterfeited certificates.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1786082621055'
omeka_image_id: 22943
images:
- 8d5b3eed814e14192058f3b94274985bb48561f7.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- Evidence
- certificates
- counterfeiting
notable_locations:
- New York
notable_persons:
- Samuel Barrett
- John Pierce
- Norris
- agent
- Barnes
- Turner
- Tudor
- Doctor Foster
- Walker
omeka_id: 38141
page_start: '97'
recipient_note: Samuel Barrett
recipients:
- Samuel Barrett
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Counterfeited certificates
year: '1786'
---



New York August 26 1786
Sir
I have to knowledge the receipt of your favor of the 16th Instant it will have a good Effect to prosecute every instance to Conviction. for tho I have ample evidence against Norris, yet his Estate is not Sufficient without others with whom he is Connected Answerable for the damages arising to so many individuals. I am obliged for the Communication you have made. I hope other information will also arise that may disclose some other Agent besides Norris who has been concerned concerned passing these Certificates-
I inclose you as I promised Ezra Coates and Henry Hills depositions with the Certificates annexed to them. you will find that Bacon bought them of one Haynes of Haverill and that Haynes bought them of the before mentioned Norris.
I have Inclosed to the Attorney General the depositions respecting Barnes, Turner & Tudor and am well Convinced that there has been rascality among them. I wish you to be so good as to furnish the Attorney General with Just information as may have come to your Knowledge.
Your Receipt from Doct. Foster I shall return to you again. it is of no Consequence as he has passed the amount in his Accounts to your Credit Your Vouchers are wanting by Walker who told he would write you the Subject
I am Sir
JP

Samuel Barrette Esquire
