---
authors:
- William Knox
collection_id: 456
collections:
- Misc. Collection 422, Collection 166
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:09+00:00'
day: '16'
description: W. Knox discussed military supply issues.  Feared clothing would not be ready for troops by the contracted date.  Knox not yet written to Col. Wadsworth for money to fund Pratt's march.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1786101640001'
omeka_image_id: 20345
images:
- 9aa73dc6ffed4a71b6704bbd9d71c26c4df96adb.jpg
- 9109d3b5f7eab1cfb1dc823c801ad2bc7a989780.jpg
- e3afcadd2621950d5b406a0a847dc3217b095e34.jpg
- 8c0347b916a43f1e066e5b17a00c02b2c79a6535.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- musket cartridge paper
- artillery
- clothing
- Swedish vessels
- supplies
- provisions
- money
- vouchers
notable_locations:
- West Point
- Hartford
- Boston
- Pittsburgh
- Fort Harmar
- War Office
- bank
- post
- Virginia
- city hall
- House of Representatives
- chamber
- St. Petersburg
- Stockholm
- Sweden
- Russia
- Prussia
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- William Knox
- Wadsworth
- Pratt
- Stagg
- Hill
- Jeffers
- St. Clair
- Doughty
- Duke of Sudermania
- colonel
- lieutenant
- major
- artillerists
- Count Mouftier
- committee
- Marquis de Lafayette
- Soderstrom
omeka_id: 38280
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Maine Historical Society
resource_type: Document
title: Clothing and Foreign Relations
year: '1788'
---



Wm Knox
16 Oct 1788
I am very anxious to hear of your arrival at Boston, on account of the marching of Lt. Pratt, with the party and Clothing from West Point to the Westward.  The clothing with all the spurring given to Mr. Hill and the Taylor will not I fear be completed until the 25th which by contract was to be ready by the 5th Instant.
Lt. Pratt writes from Hartford dated Octr 11th and returns 40 men with a Searjeant, detached to West Point and 19 remaining with him at Hartford so that you find he drawing his business to a close.  I have not yet written to Colo. Wadsworth for an order for any money on the Bank for the purposes of Pratt's marching which I informed you he had agreed to give immediately on receiving advice from me of the amount necessary.  I shall delay to do it until the arrival of two or three posts more from Boston hoping by then to receive answers from you from thence to my late letters on this subject.  Indeed it is almost impossible for me to form an opinion respecting the sum which will be wanted. - it will depend much upon the quantity of clothing that Pratt is to take on, for which objects, I want your advice.  As soon as the clothing is ready for Packing I have requested Mr. Stagg to Inspect it and attend to its package - As Mr. Hill
desired this morning Mr. Stagg to lose no time in this business and to make it his first object until it was completed.  
The Pittsburgh letters have arrived this morning.  There are none from any other person than Ensign Jeffers for this Office.  His are relative to his accounts, which he previously forwarded with the vouchers for the same.  Lt. Kersey had forwarded his accounts previously but no vouchers.  The Private letter I forwarded you from Genl. St. Clair made you acquainted with the State of Affairs there at Fort Harmar and that Country.  
Major Doughty some time since requested some Musket Cartridge Papers, and that the clothing for the Artillery might for the future be particularly addressed to him.
Count Moustiers arrived on Monday evening last from his Eastern tour and on the early part of next week sets out for Virginia.  The City Hall with its improvement goes on rapidly.  On the ground back of it the Assembly or House of Representatives chambers is to stand, the foundation is laid and this day they are erecting the Frame.  There has been but a Congress but two days since they have been under our roof, to wit on the 6th & 7th Insts - All the report of the Committee for examining the War department & that part respecting your particular arrangem
the War Office, has been ordered to be entered on the [illegible] that part being considered as secret was not entered.
I have been as civil to [W H?] Fry as my leisure and circumstances admitted - he has dined about and seems calculated to make his way good in society.  
I sent you pr last Posts a letter from the Mq's de la Fayette of an old date.  
The War with the sweeds & russians has seriously commenced the Duke of Sudermania - and Admiral Greig have had a Battle, and both sides say they have had victory insomuch that Te Deum has been sung at Petersburgh & Stockholm - Sodorstrom is busy arming a Sweedish vessell in this port he has accounts which are altogether Sweedish and therefore favorable.  
I am yours Affectionately  
W Knox 
 Genl Knox..
