---
authors:
- King's Headman
collection_id: 622
collections:
- Digges-L'Enfant-Morgan Papers, mm 8201548
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:10+00:00'
day: '22'
description: Punishment for murders of white people committed by Indians to be administered.  Indians seek peace with white people.  Blamed A. McGillivray for seditious and murderous acts and advocated
  for his murder.  Creeks offered to advise their people on the boundaries around the Oakmulgey and the St. Mary's rivers, discussed several land disputes.
doc_types:
- Document Signed
document_number: '1786102290001'
omeka_image_id: 11242
images:
- 15766a921e4ca6417655fe52edacb08c63dd6803.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- treaty
- agreement
notable_locations:
- Georgia
- nation
- land
- Galphinkon
- mouth of the Oakmulgey
- St. Mary's
- river
- boundary
- border
- Oconee
- Savannah
- Ogusky
notable_persons:
- King's Headman
- Creeks
- Indian Nation
- hostiles
- white people
- white settlers
- Spaniards
- Alexander McGillivray
- Upper Creek
- Richard Baily
- John Francis
- Lower Creek
- master of Breath
- Minon
omeka_id: 38304
page_start: '1'
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Georgia
title: '[Talks given by the King''s Headman and warriors of the Great Nation.]'
year: '1786'
---



A Talk deliverd by the Kings, Head men and Warriors of the Creek Nation, to the Commissioners for holding a Conference and Treaty with the sd Indians, by the General assembly of the State of Georgia near the mouth of Sholder bone on the Ocome Rover October 22d 1786~
Fathers, Friends, & Brothers
We the headmen have come to answer your Talk which we heard yesterday and to tell you that we are willing to give you Satisfaction for the Injuries our people have done to the State of Georgia- There are white people in the nation who have been the Occasion of those murders, they must and will be killd when we return to the nation and the Indians who were concernd must also be killd two Indians were killed when the mischief was done.  The chief person who has been against you is Alexander McGilvery he is of a large family, therefore we will give him an Opportunity of going away quietly; but we must remove him if he chooses to live with the Spaniards he may go to them, or else he must also be killd.  We do not mean to deceive you
as has been the case hitherto  The talks and Letters that have been sent you by McGilverey as the voice of the nation are not so.  They are of his own making and to such his private purposes and make our nation Poor- this is well known to those present who are from the upper Creeks
Brothers
The two particular men that will be first made examples of are Richard Baily and John Francis of the Keogleges -
We who are here are the chiefs of the lower Creeks, and are determind to do what we have now engaged.  Afterwards we shall not be asham'd to look you in the face.  According to your invitation we have come from our country and have suffer'd a great deal of fatigue, and hunger but; it is as Ordained by the master of Breath that we shou'd attend at all Treaties when calld upon our forfathers at their first meeting when the white hath war opend between them were friends
The master of Breath now hears what we say and what we say we mean to maintain.  We were then in poverty and had nothing but our bows and arrows but now we are able to speak in friendship with each other -- He who made everything will we hope direct matters so that we may return home in peace and good will with you -- 
The master of Breath has settled us on the Land together He is like a man on the top of a house who hears all that we say, the white people have Learning, we have none- Still we hope to settle matters so as to be agreable to both parties we are all from one Mother.  
Friends & Brothers
Agreeable to the Treaty held at Galphinton (and as soon as satisfaction is given) we shall bring down some of our people to attend and see the line mark'd from the mouth of the Oakmulgey to the Saint Marys Rivers
and the upper line also. Then when the Trees are mark'd each party will know how far to go. —
We first gave you Land from the Savanah to the Ogeechy Rivers then by the bad Conduct of our Young people we were obliged to give you to the Oconee for the safety of our women and children --
We might have given you Satisfaction by taking the lives of our people but we preferd giving you the Land and you shall enjoy it.
Tallisie for himself &c
You must excuse my handwriting in these papers, as it was wrote in the night in camp -
S Cosby

Colo. Minor
Talissee
Kings talk
