---
authors:
- George Rogers Clark
collection_id: 991
collections:
- Executive Papers, Office of Governors Letters
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:10+00:00'
day: 09
description: Clark invites the Indian nations to a Grand Council in November. Location of grand council disputed; Clark says the meeting will be at Clarksville but the Indian leaders state that councils
  are always held at port St. Vincennes.
doc_types:
- Extract
document_number: '1786109990301'
omeka_image_id: 19463
images:
- 171c8ae571a2fc00c4be80a18cf517478768c852.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- white wampum
- strings of white
- Grand Council
notable_locations:
- post
- St. Vincennes
- Clarksville
- council
- Wabash
notable_persons:
- General Clark
- George Clark
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- French
- warriors
- chiefs
- Goose
- Fusil
- French
- Fish
- Loon
- Harry Innes
- Monsieur de Vincenne
omeka_id: 38331
page_start: '1'
repositories:
- 'Virginia State Library: Archives and Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
title: Extracts of General Clark's Speeches to the Different Nations of Indians on the Wabash and their Answers
year: '1786'
---



Extracts of Genl Clark's speeches to the different nations of Indians on the (undecipherable) or their answers in Oct 2 1786.  Genl Clark "I send you today some strings of white inviting you with sincerity to come to a grand council which will be held at Clarksville on the 20th November next so see if we can come to see me or make a Treaty of Peace and friendship (undecipherable)  The Goose and (undecipherable) my Elder Brother thou oughtest to know the place we have been accustomed to speak at, it is at Port St Vincennes there own chiefs are laid, there own ancestors (undecipherable) is that of our Father the French or not at Clarksville where you required us to meet you.  We don't know such a place, but at Port Vincennes when we always went where necessary to hold councils.  My Elder Brother thou informant me.  I must meet you at the place I have mentioned, get thou sent my Brother that the season is far advanced and that I could not have done to invite my allies to come to your council which we(undecipherable) to hold at Port Vincennes.
The loan my Elder Brother thou invitest us to a grand council at Clarksville, we don't know that place.  It is at Port Vincennes that our Fathers and to go to speak or we hope you will not refuse it to us, that place being the (undecipherable) of our ancestors and of Mons de Vincenne.  In the spring of the year we will repair at your pleaaure to Port Vincennes.  Genl Clark I propose the last of April for the Grand Council to be held at this place.  (St Vincennes) where I expect all those who are inclines to open the load will appear and we can discover what the deity means.
Copied from Genl Clarks papers by  Harry Innis
