---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 296
collections:
- Edwin A. Ely Autograph Collection
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:10+00:00'
day: '03'
description: Recent act of Congress reallocated provisions for military.  No clothing or rations can be given to Jackson's requests.  Knox discussed various duties Jackson should complete.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1786120300001'
omeka_image_id: 11941
images:
- 815fbc8a8b881379c63740acab1b281735854109.jpg
- 4037a236e66fc48936f0f45f74824916c9b1ab52.jpg
- 38d0888fa8490910538585621775a56dbd0542f8.jpg
- 1363d25422e6e5251e0c871fe7529a8eae1f49a1.jpg
- 9b3be42e564b96698bd3c4c6e607e1df96f7c1fd.jpg
- 3739a2d3aa77d048eba85a83c84eca93e0da1aba.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- provisions
- rations
- clothing
- food
- funds
- money
- pay
- barrack essentials
- partial contract
- Pennsylvania currency
- arms and accoutrements
- freight
- recruiting service
- taxes
- indents of interest
- final settlements
- certificate of the treasurer
- safe conveyance
notable_locations:
- New York
- fort
- Boston
- Philadelphia
- New Hampshire
- Portsmouth
- Falmouth lands
- London
notable_persons:
- Henry Jackson
- Henry Knox
- recruits
- Congress
- War Department
- Governor
- officers and soldiers
- Bruce
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Captain Hobley
- John Lane
- Lucy Knox
- Mrs. Knox
omeka_id: 38384
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '6'
recipients:
- Henry Jackson
repositories:
- New Jersey Historical Society Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Allocation of Clothing and Rations
year: '1786'
---



General Knox's friendly letter December 3, 1786
New York 3 December 1786
My dear Henry. The post arrived last night but brought me no letters from you.
I am persuaded that you must not only be anxious, but in a considerable degree surprized which as yet you have not received from me any decisive information on the subject of clothing and rations. The fact is that I have been unable to give you any satisfaction on these points. 
Congress came to the determination of using the troops from the necessity of this case, and had the funds needing to carry their resolutions into complete effect been at their command, every arrangement depending on the war department would now have been at least in a train of execution_ But the funds indispensable for an energetic establishment here to be provided.
This business has been complex, and consisting of a variety of parts_ at last has assumed some form, and I hope will be as effectual.
As the case may require- I have been readily of the opinion that the public had better suffer all the injuries arising from a want of troops than to unite them without being able to provide for them completely in all effects. Under this impression I have made some attempts to influence the rich in the support of government, and the ensuing week will determine whether I have been as successful as I have believed.
I have repeatedly mentioned to you, and also to the Governor that great dependence was placed on the actions of the enemies men at Boston, but to our astonishment we have not heard of any success there in this respect. 
If you could be provided with money, to advance to the officers and soldiers some pay, and also to provide rations, and some [strikeout] barrack utensils, I should not hesitate to give the necessary orders to you. 
To commence
the ** service immediately, and depend on the ** here making for the clothing. In case the ** one to be *furnished* by a *partial* contract. I shall request you to look out for some person who will *furnish* you while at Boston. He may allow 9 1/2 or 10 *pence* per ** ** currency for a complete *ration*. You know ** ** Mr. Bruce perhaps wanted ** on this head. I wish you to make the necessary inquiries at what ** *created* he *furnished* and let me know the **.
I have ordered your ** ** ** complete from Theodore *Price* to the amount of *100* in order to make up any deficiencies ** by ** or ** **. You will probably ** receive them before you receive this letter. The *freight* will have been ** in Philadelphia. I have also directed Mr. Hodgdon to
address to your care, the arms and ** ** for New Hampshire. As ** that ** ** have [strikethrough] determined to ** the troops and appointed their officers ** you to found them on, and pay the price from Boston to Portsmouth in the mean time they must be well **.

 you ** ** ** money in the manner before ** a fee no probability of your ** while ** the ** service ** the ** on middle of January. 


Although no mention is made on the ** ** of the non commissioned **. Yet they are confined as ** and ** ** **. some
There are some *luxes* ** on my Falmouth ** for which ** they theater ** is not paid by the 14th of December. I have ** ** ** Hobby that if they ** ** ** **
pay them, and draw upon you ** the money, for which ** you to recline the intents of interest on my final settlements, and fill them, or **certificate** of the ** for interest on the ** **-perhaps these ** wanted ** for **. ** you to enquire, and I ** ** Hobby to do the same. Be particular my ** Harry in this affair.
I am your **
H. Knox
Gen Henry Jackson
another commission

 John Lane brought home things from London for Mr. Knox. Please W ** compliments to him, and left 12 January to deliver them to you, and ** them on ** the **  ** conveyance. Henry Knox ** you punctual attention W this matter.
