---
author_note: John Pierce
authors:
- John Pierce
collection_id: 783
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:12+00:00'
day: '15'
description: Informs Colonel Daniel Broadhead that the Office of Army Accounts has examined his accounts, the results of which he reports.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1786121521455'
omeka_image_id: 22943
images:
- edc6c9ff0af803d275da1d4cba60c43eda7860ab.jpg
month: '12'
notable_locations:
- Office of Army Accounts, New York
- Philadelphia
- Princeton
notable_persons:
- Daniel Broadhead
- John Pierce
- Fowler
- Beadford
- George Marjan
- William Moore
omeka_id: 38406
page_start: '201'
recipient_note: Colonel Daniel Broadhead
recipients:
- Colonel Daniel Broadhead
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Office of Army Accounts, New York
title: Examined account
year: '1786'
---



Col Daniel Broadhead Office of Accounts New York Dec 15 1786

Dear Sirs

In consequence of an examination I have made into yoor accounts I find that there remains some diffculties, which are necessary to be removed. Before I can report on them with justice to you and the Public.

You have charged several sums of money as paid to recruiting officers for some of which payments you have produced receipts and othrs you suppose are lost by the failure of some of the pages in your receipt book in general it is expected that the officers who have paid out recruiting monies should be held to see the same accounts for when the persons to whom they were paid (undecipherable) their accounts and the public cannot expect to pay. 
a sum of money without a receipt or (undecipherable) acknowledgement by which the officers may be brought to account. I am therefore of opinion on that W Fowler papers with whom these officers have settled must be procured to asertain your credits and the pridence of those who have not settled be so far obtainedas to establish a debt against them. I delayed your accounts for these papers from W Fowler who has forwarded them as I am informed to Philadelphia but in whose care he has left them I cannot find.

Your charge of 4000 dollars paid to Col Rofs stands objected to for want of more information respecting in and because Col Rofs asserts, that he has settled the same with you, and paid you the balance in (undecipherable).

You have paid a bounty to several folders which from the ausunt I am led to suppose ought to be state not continental change.

The payments to Sheeton and Garner I am (undecipherable) of purchases will require an (undecipherable) to Col Geo Morgans Books as (undecipherable) with whom the same must be credited to you, if they are far undoubtedly they must be proper charges against the public.

The payments made to Beadford and (undecipherable) in the quarter master department (undecipherable) for the accets of those gentlemen or their principals to be produced to 
11am and the finally passing of them. Where these persons are, in with whom they have one to settle in writing they ought to be called upon to close their accounts immediately.

The payments to William Moore for the use of the Regiments require more explicit evidence I think it has been suggested that it was for clothing in which care it would be will to obtian an invoice from him and their the distribution so as to assertain also whether they ought to be a private charge against the regiments or not.

There are also some few small oranges which are not properly (undecipherable), but are not of sufficient consequence to merit attention.

I do not think of your demand of 12.284 dollars for the loss of your vouchers without some more particular accounts from the persons to whom the money was paid on recurring to Fowlers Books and the Commissaries and the (undecipherable) Marley credits, where the pricipal part may be assertained. If any congress cannot be supposed capable of permitting so large a sum to be passed, without it appears that every information which the subject will admit of it before them.

PP
