---
authors:
- John Pierce
collection_id: 781
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:12+00:00'
day: '19'
description: Largely illegible letter from the Commissioner of Army Accounts
doc_types:
- Contemporary Copy of Letter Signed
document_number: '1786121921201'
omeka_image_id: 22392
images:
- 25dca237cb83193d66d2b28998693b96531a91c3.jpg
- a8c1a8b3c7b78ce896a2ddb3b186b8a5d4406555.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- works
- certificates
- pay
- public offices
notable_locations:
- Office of Army Accounts
- New York
- works near Boston
- Boston
notable_persons:
- Doctor William Eustis
- Doctor William Eustice
- John Pierce
- Congress
- Commander in Chief
- commanding officer
- volunteers
note: Largely illegible
omeka_id: 38422
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- William Eustis
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Office of Army Accounts
title: Letter from the Commissioner of Army Accounts
year: '1786'
---



Decem 19. 1786
Doctor Wm. Eustice
Copied
Offices of Army Accounts NYork
December 19 1786
Sir 

That Sercices are not probably out of compiling after these as 
the  [undecipherbale] merely complicated and as [undecipherbale]
pay the commanding Officer of the [?]ment did not
pay them, until April 1778. when his [undecipherable]
that he went a Volunteer to [?] and he [?] pay from 
April 1778 to Aug. 1779. [undecipherable] from a volunteer controlled &
[undecipherable] to determine, as he [undecipherable]
but on the return to Boston, he was either not [undecipherable]
by the public or the courtmatial [undecipherable] thought
[undecipherable] not [undecipherable] in paying him, as it was considered
that he was to be [undecipherable] by then [undecipherable] service
as codially ment to [undecipherable]
as he recognised [undecipherable] was contraty to the established
[line crossed out]
[undecipherable] of a [undecipherable] Officers in the he then produced from the
commander in Chief only [undecipherable] paymaster of his
[undecipherable] confess [undecipherable] as the continental [undecipherable] only
paid him when actually imployed [undecipherable] as Congressmen
never recognised him.or any arrangements
according as the public Officer of the Paymaster Offices.
I am of opinion he considered as a regualr Officers of the UStates or that he cares not been [undecipherable] by him received any [undecipherable]
compensation there is but he has already, unless he
app[?] to send obtains the approbation of Congress for it.

Doct. Eustis
