---
authors:
- John Pierce
collection_id: 779
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:12+00:00'
day: '23'
description: Letter from the Commissioner of Army Accounts and Paymaster General containing details of the accounts of officers, two of whom may have been mistaken for one another due to having similar
  names.
doc_types:
- Contemporaneous or Certified Copy (made for information of action)
document_number: '1786122321001'
omeka_image_id: 22561
images:
- 7658aa745d42d6ac6607283c5b9f1ce845edfe30.jpg
- 2a229ac1d6e6cb2a4c650e575bc0840fa6b79646.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- Specie
- pay
- money
- books of the pay office
- following sums
- taken prisoner
- exchanged
- copy of the receipt
- opinion
- accounts
- present applicant
- closed
- pay and milate
- pay roll
- Act of Congress
notable_locations:
- New York
- Post Office
- Pennsylvania
notable_persons:
- John Nicholson
- John Pierce
- John Jameson
- Colonel Baxton
- Joseph Nourse
- Joseph Carlton
- Board of War
- Elias Boudin
- John Beatty
- prisoner
- Richard Dallam deputy pay master
- John Wilkinson
- Member of Assembly
- Colonel Hart
- Militia
omeka_id: 38435
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Jonathan Nicholson
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Office of Army Accounts, New York
title: Accounts of Various Officers
year: '1786'
---



Office of Army Accts
New Yori Dec. 23, 1786
Sir:
Capt. John Jameson of Colonel[undecipherable name] Reg. flying Camp stands charged [karat pointing up] in the Books of the Pay Office with the following Sums received of Money viz.--
Sep. 29 [date above this of 177 last number undecipherable] Rec'd for [undecipherable word] [undecipherable word] to the B. of War [three undecipherable words]
Oct. 21 of Joseph Carleton [undecipherable word] do [for ditto]   do [for ditto]
of Elias [undecipherable name]C.G. Pris.
of John Beatty  do [for ditto]
Capt. Jameson was taken prisoner on the 16 Nov. 1776 and exchanged the 6: August 177[last number of date undecipherable]--
On examining the Book of W. [undecipherable name] I find that John Wilkinson a Member of Assembly recd of on the 11 March 1777 the Sum of 608 [undecipherable change notation] dollars for the pay & mileage of John Jameson Compy of Col. Harts Reg [undecipherable word] Militia a Copy of the [undecipherable word] is inclosed it seems there were two of [3 undecipherable words] of [undecipherable word]
same Regt. whether this money was drawn for the present applicant or not I cannot determine by the [karat pointing up] [undecipherable notation] dollars Books.  Therefore must leave at your Tho I am of opinion that  from the differences of the names of the officers & men of the two Companies that this [undecipherable word] was recd for the former [karat pointing up] another however you will please to examine into the matter and if you find my opinion coincides with yours the Accts of the present applicant may be closed, if on the contrary it should  appear
money was received for him he must be charged with the sum of 25.11 being so much drawn for pay & mileage as appears by the [karat pointing up] Pay Roll -- I have noted on Capt. Jamesons account of Monies advanced him men, the several sums that have been paid them by W. Dollam on their return from captivity [undecipherable letter] the whole of Capt. Jameson's award must be [undecipherable word] by you as he is foreclosed in a settlement at this office pursuant to an Act of Congress
Copy of the Receipt
March 11, 1777
Recd of Richard Dollam D.P. [undecipherable letters] Six Hundred and Eight dols & [undecipherable fraction notation] of a dollar it being pay due Capt. John Jamesons Compy[undecipherable three words] Regt Pennsylvania Militia as P Roll and to sn smt 608 [undecipherable fraction] Dols
Jno. Wilkinson
a member of Assembly
Notation on the side:  December 23, 1786
to Jno. Nicholson Esq
Copied
J. Nicholson Esq.
