---
authors:
- John Pierce
collection_id: 778
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:13+00:00'
day: '05'
description: The Commissioner of Army Accounts discusses various concerns related to the accounts of General Mifflin, Col. Brewer and Massachusetts. He wonders how any state can maintain accurate accounts
  without at least having abstracts of the musters.
doc_types:
- Draft Letter
document_number: '1787020537001'
omeka_image_id: 22140
images:
- 8fe422e52090dc8ed30f9da8cb05fa1bec7c487c.jpg
- 416f3b4a4f6ab1cd6c5e06f1c930e30c23e5d24f.jpg
- 148dae9adfbd0fa7cf62df3e554225a4967e66bd.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- deductions
- regimental abstracts
- pay
- clothing
- credit
- accounts
- money
- balance
- state
- shirts
- shoes
- hose
- receipts
- deliveries
- dollars
- wages
- musters
- depreciation
notable_locations:
- New York
- Watertown
- Massachusetts
notable_persons:
- Royal Flint
- John Pierce
- soldiers
- General Thomas Mifflin
- officers
- Committee
- Colonel Samuel Brewer
- creditors
- Army
- Commissioners
- soldiers
omeka_id: 38508
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Royal Flint
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Concerns Related to Various Accounts
year: '1787'
---



New York February
5th 1787
[undecipherable]
Copied
New York Feby 5 1787
Sir
I am to acknowledge the receipt of your Letter of the 23d instant.
I cannot find that any deductions have been made on the
regimental abstracts of 1786 from the pay of the Soldiers for
[undecipherable] received, in conformity [undecipherable]
General Miflin delivered the Men's clothing to the Officers [undecipherable]
man, and was paid for the same by then, but I cannot
and I find that he has given order in hos accounts of
clothing for the [undecipherable] for a quantity carried by them from the Committed
at Water town to the [undecipherable] of pound 6,992.12 5 and led
Marques thus Committed with clothing to the account of
pound 26168 having a ballance of pound 6732 59 [undecipherable].
received from this Committed and [undecipherable] who I suppose
acted for the State. but it appears on probable that
the [undecipherable] is the [undecipherable] with that you mention,
because that was delivered in 1875 on [undecipherable] was
probably in 1786, because that it consited for in usually in 
shorts shoes & Hose _ and [undecipherable] that Genl. Mifflon has
produced the Officers receipts for his deliveries, [undecipherable]
the [undecipherable] not do if they [undecipherable] with the States.
This information may however be of service
if the States be [undecipherable] this Committees acted for the State.
Cole Saml Brewer in an account settled by him
with the Auditors of the Main Army in Sept. 1778[undecipherable] the States
of Massachusetts with a [undecipherable] Debt from that State.
In the settlement of [undecipherable] of the pay of the Line from
the State of Massachusetts I took up the account only
from January 1781 only, and considered that as the state had
undertaken it, that the whole wages for the year 1780.
wanting what was paid by the State and to [undecipherable] the
[undecipherable - complete line blacked out]
accounts of the Officers fpr the [undecipherable] and [undecipherable] without
a recurrance to this Muster, and as settlement
an now arrangement of the accounts from the first
principles [undecipherable] for you the  ballance whicj
zje State was authorized to pay, on their answer as
well as how any of the State Commissioners can
determine the proüriety of the payments without
the Ministers or an [undecipherable] from them.



Royal Flint Esquire
