---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 460
collections:
- Presidents Papers, John Sullivan, 1787-May, 1788
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:13+00:00'
day: '07'
description: Knox laments that because Congress has not been in session, commencement of recruiting service has been retarded. Hopes that Congress opinion and result will be known in fifteen days. Discusses
  how matters may affect contracts and supplies. Will not give Major Cass any orders until contract matters resolved. Major Cass's arms and accoutrement are in Boston.
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1787020700001'
omeka_image_id: 8278
images:
- 80a85aec9bd5b262e9bdb0715d19c5efb20425ac.jpg
- e94a4b50eb420e50e33ef33a6a87c819c71490ce.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- list of the officers
- quota
- Congress
- establishment of the troops
- recruiting service
- money
- terms
- contracts
- ways and means
- pay
- clothing
- subsistence
- transportation
- arms and accoutrements
notable_locations:
- War Office
- New Hampshire
- Connecticut
- Massachusetts
- Boston
notable_persons:
- John Sullivan
- Henry Knox
- Congress
- Board of Treasury
- troops
- Major Cass
- Colonel Jackson
- President of Congress
omeka_id: 38513
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '2'
recipients:
- John Sullivan
repositories:
- New Hampshire State Records and Archives
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Regarding the Status of the Quota of Recruits from New Hampshire
year: '1789'
---



War Office  February 7th 1787
Sir
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipts of your excellency's live favors of the 21st of November and the 21 January the latter inclosing a list of the officers appointed to command the quota of New Hampshire.
There having been no congress for about three months past, other measures than were directed on the 21st of October for the establishment of the troops could not be provided by the beard of treasury without the approbation of congress.  This circumstance has almost entirely retarded the commencement of the recruitment service excepting in Connecticut and Massachusetts in which a little money has been supplied for the purpose of recruiting.
There have been proposals for certain contra for all the objects of the troops.  But the terms are or such a nature as to require the decision of congress thereon, as this honourable body has been but recently organised the subject has not yet been discussed.  It is probable however that their opinion and the result will be known in ten or fifteen days.  If the
the contracts alluded to should take place the troops will probably for a certain time be well furnished if they do not it will be difficult for the treasury board to find the ways and means to provide the pay clothing subsistence and transportation of the troops in any tolerable manner.
I shall therefore find myself restrained from giving Major Cass any orders until the event of the proposed contracts is determined.
The arms and accoutrements for Major Cass corps are in Boston in the care of Colonel, Jackson, as soon as suitable provision can be made for commencing the recruiting service in New Hampshire they shall be forwarded to Major Cass.
The commissioners will be made out presented to the President of Congress for his signature and when completed shall be forwarded to your Excellency.
I have the honor to be
With the highest respect
Your Excellency
Most obedient servant 
Knox
His Excellency President Sullivan
