---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 991
collections:
- Executive Papers, Office of Governors Letters
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:13+00:00'
day: '12'
description: Knox describes for Gov. Randolph the success of the military engagement against the insurgents in Massachusetts. (Shays' Rebellion)
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1787021200101'
omeka_image_id: 19562
images:
- fa7b3cabb921a78d652ed4699ca2d6150b377198.jpg
- 4d02b5f464e7ff087be5066a319e3073e931a18f.jpg
- 9734e34a03234cb61cc7f44cb6d4b9af96ee3719.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- efficient plan for the establishment of the troops
- contracts
- clothing
- rations
- plans
- horses
- accoutrements
- necessary supplies
- insurrection
- fatiguing march of 30 miles
- violent storm of snow
- severe cold
- frozen
- snow storm
notable_locations:
- War Office
- Massachusetts
- Petersham
- New Hampshire
- Virginia
notable_persons:
- Edmund Randolph
- Henry Knox
- Board of Treasury
- Congress
- Captain Watts
- General Lincoln
- his force
- troops
- prisoners
- leaders
omeka_id: 38524
recipients:
- Edmund Randolph
repositories:
- 'Virginia State Library: Archives and Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Insurgents in Massachusetts
year: '1787'
---



His Excellency
The Governor
of the Commonwealth
of the State
of Virginia
Genl Knox S Co
recd Feb 24 87
Feb 12 1787

87
Inform the Governor that Genl Lincoln after a forced march in a snow storm disbursed the Massachusetts insurgents of Habersham on the morning of the 4th
capturing 150 and disbursing the others.
War Office, 12th Feb:y 1787
Sir,
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's two favors of December   y:e 18th and 30th.
The board of treasury have not yet been able to form any efficient plan for providing for the establishment of the troops in all respects.  No contracts for clothing or rations are yet made.  These materially depend on some plans which are submitted to Congress for their appropriation and direction.
There having been no Congress since October until very lately, and not one of nine states until this day, the subject could not be discussed in Congress.  I hope however, that the matter will soon be determined when I shall be able to write fully to Captain Watts respecting his horses, accoutrements and the other necessary supplies.
I have the pleasure to assure your Excellency that the formidable Insurrection in Massachusetts is in a fair train of being effectually and speedily suppressed.
suppressed.
General Lincoln informs me that he marched at 8 o'clock in the evening of the 3rd instant with his force consisting of upwards of 3000 troops of all descriptions, and after a fatiguing march of 30 miles without halting but for a few moments part of it through a violent storm of snow after which succeeded a severe cold so that most of his men were frozen in different places and degrees he completely surprised the insurgents at Petersham at 9 o'clock Sunday morning the 4th, and almost entirely dispersed them - took 150 prisoners, the rest fled in every direction.  The leaders have escaped to New Hampshire and other states.
I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect,
Your Excellency's
Most obed:t humble serv:t
HKnox 
His Excellency
Governor Randolph
