---
authors:
- George Morgan
collection_id: 779
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:13+00:00'
day: 09
description: Informs Hodgdon of various irregularities related to the account of Martin Roberts and requests documentation related to Roberts' account.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1787030980001'
omeka_image_id: 22761
images:
- e04de940d2d1c906999900d634407d849c705742.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- account
- voucher
- balance
- bail
- debt
- credit
- process at law
- evidence
- omission of the voucher
- deposited
- certificate copy
notable_locations:
- Princeton
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Colonel George Morgan
- Martin Roberts
- Read
- Martin Armstrong
omeka_id: 38570
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Princeton
title: Irregularities in the Account of Martin Roberts
year: '1787'
---



Letter from Col. Morgan at Princeton
March 9, 1787
(undecipherable scribble) Martin Roberts (undecipherable scribble)
answered
Record from State Dept. Nov. 24 (year illegible) R.P.O. 401319
Princeton March 9 1787
Dear Sir
I am much obliged by your favour of the 5th Instant.  I have not heard from Mr. Roberts, nor do I expect to hear from him, until he is compelled to it, by a Process at Law.  I am sorry to occasion you Trouble, but I must entreat the favour of you, to inform Mr. Read, that Martin Roberts original Acct shall be furnished to him, by you, if the attested copy you now send should not be sufficient Evidence--
I think it will be likewise necessary for you to write to Mr. Read & explain to him the omission of y Voucher for the Money Roberts charges as paid to Martin Armstrong--This I believe is the only Deficiency & if I mistake not is [symbol for British Pound Sterling) 35.8 (undecipherable mark).  Roberts, I know, paid a considerable part of the money [karat pointing up] to Armstrong, but he never deposited any Voucher with me, for part, or I demanded one for the whole--I believe the Balance he owes [undecipherable mark] Armstrong is but about [symbol for British Pound Sterling] 6 or [symbol for British Pound Sterling] 8, & therefore is well worth his while to repair here to settle it--In the mean
Time, I entreat that Mr. Read may hold him to sufficient Bail for the whole Sum, as you know.  I am answerable to you for it, until the Voucher be produced & therefore a Balance due to me is detained in your Hands. [squiggle mark]
If it were not imposing too much [undecipherable pen mark] trouble on you, I would by the favour of your furnishing me [karat pointing up] also with a certified Copy of Martin Roberts Acct., Debit, & Credit, as I kept none [squiggle mark]
I remain with great Regard Dear Sir your most ob. Servant
Geo. Morgan
Received from State Dept. Nov. 24, 189[last number illegible] R.P.O. 401310
Sam Hodgden, Esq.
