---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 562
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers.
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:15+00:00'
day: '14'
description: Henry Knox, Secretary at War, requests an account of clothing on hand from LtCol Henry Jackson.  Noted the U.S. was not responsible for the defective methods of payment by contractors.  Mentioned
  desertions from Capt. Burbeck and Savage's companies on their march to Springfield, inquiries into quality and quantity of clothing for their companies.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1787061400001'
omeka_image_id: 13582
images:
- 068d0ba797d826b275a8f76fe5cf6c538587ddca.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- pay
- clothing
- account
- supplies
notable_locations:
- War Office
- Springfield
- Massachusetts
notable_persons:
- Henry Jackson
- Henry Knox
- Captain Burbeck
- Captain Savage
- deserters
- troops
- Secretary of War
- North
- major.
omeka_id: 38784
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Jackson
repositories:
- Virginia Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Pay and Clothing for the Troops
year: '1787'
---



War Office June 14, 1787
Sirs:
My absence has hitherto prevented my answering your favor of the 24 of June.  I most sincerely hope that the State of Massachusetts will manage to your satisfaction every payment due to your corps whether for services or supplies.  It is the expectation of Congress that they do make all the advances to the time of the marching of the troops as you specify.
The officers and soldiers who received orders on the Collectors in the manner you state, undoubtedly suffered a great hardship==the clothing and other supplies certainly ought to be paid for in a different manner.
You have been informed of my opinion respecting the impracticability of any alteration [alterations] being made by the United States for the defective mode of payment on the Collectors.                    Yours,
Your officers will be allowed pay from the time of their actual appointments by the State and not from the date of their commissions.
Captains Burbeck and Savage's companies have arrived at Springfield but the desertions have been excessive their deficiency being [undecipherable, 46?].  Captain Burbeck states this to have been occasioned by their defective pay.  He writes to me and requests shoes for his men - As they have been so recently clothed his request is rather a matter of astonishment.
I beg you would be so good as to inform me of the exact quantity of clothing they received - and if they have not received the whole quantity whether it is not contracted for and to be forwarded them at Springfield.
Major North having met the companies on their march has not time to inspect them until his return.
I have the honor to be Sir
Your most obedient servant
[signature undecipherable[
Col. Henry Jackson
