---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 1046
collections:
- Americana Miscellany Collection.
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:16+00:00'
day: '14'
description: Alludes to Constitutional Convention; worries that matters will leak out. Believes state governments to be an unnecessary evil; discusses qualities of Federal Government; alludes to Philadelphia
  Convention. Refers to the death of their young child.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1787081400001'
omeka_image_id: 18996
images:
- ee460e2bd2aedc750cb3b0b711e72ecb2b34a998.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- hand of death
- grief
- convention
- representation in Congress
- present constitution
- national republic
- state governments
- insufferable evil
- frame of government
- education, genius, and habits
- views
- judgement
- powers
- severest affliction
- disease
notable_locations:
- New York
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- George Washington
- Henry Knox
- Mrs. Lucy Knox
- Congress
- men of this continent
- youngest child
note: Some text loss on margins.
omeka_id: 38881
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- George Washington
repositories:
- 'Adelphi University, Library: Special Collections'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Views of the Constitutional Convention
year: '1787'
---



New York 14 August 1787
C +
Influenced by motives of delicacy I have 
hitherto forborne the pleasure my dear Sir of 
writing to you since my return from Philadelphia. 
I have been apprehensive 
that the stages of the business of the convention might leak out, 
and be made an ill use of, by some people. 
I have therefore been anxious that you should 
escape the possibility of imputation. But as 
the objects seem now to be brought to a point, 
I take the liberty to indulge myself in 
communicating with you.
Although I frankly confess 
that the existence of the State governments 
is an insuperable evil in a national point 
of view, yet I do not well see how in this 
stage of the business they could be annihilated 
__ and perhaps while they continue the 
frame of government could not with 
propriety be much higher toned than the one
we proposed. It is so infinitely preferable 
to the present constitution, and gives such a 
bias to a proper line of conduct in future t[missing] 
I think all men anxious for a national govet[missing] 
should zealously embrace it. 
The education, genius, and t[missing]
of men on this continent are so various eve[missing] 
at this moment, and of consequence their v[missing] 
of the same subject so different, that I am 
satisfied with the result of the convention, 
although it is short of my wishes and of 
my judgement.
But when I find men of th[missing] 
purest intentions concur in embracing a sys[missing] 
which on the highest deliberation, seems to[missing] 
the best which can be obtained, under pres[missing] 
circumstances, I am convinced of the 
propriety of its being strenously supported by 
all those who have wished for a national 
republic of higher and more durable powers.
powers
I am persuaded that the address 
of the convention to accompany their proposition 
will be couched in the most persuasive 
terms 
I feel anxious that there 
should be the fullest representation in 
Congress, in order that the propositions 
should receive their warmest concurrence 
and strongest impulse.
Mrs Knox and myself have 
recently sustained the severe affliction of 
losing our youngest child of about 
eleven months old, who died on the 
11th instant of a disease incident to children 
cutting their teeth in the summer season. 
This is the third time that Mrs Knox 
has had her tenderest affections lacerated 
by the rigid hand of death. 
Although
Although her present grief is sharp ind[missing] 
we hope it well assuaged by the [undecipherable] 
hand of time.
I am my dear Sir 
with the most perfec[missing]
respect and affection 
Your sincere friend & 
humble servant
HKnox
His Excellency 
General Washington.
Maj General Knox
14th August 1787
