---
authors:
- DuPlesses
collection_id: 999
collections:
- Society of the Cincinnati Archives
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:16+00:00'
day: '10'
description: DuPlesses gives effusive thanks to Knox for his attentiveness and friendship during his time in America. Outlines the political situation in Europe.
doc_types:
- Translation (Contemporary or Modern) of Letter
document_number: '1787091040001'
omeka_image_id: 16621
images:
- 6f330d72492b1f0ba7928cd50af997de703d915f.jpg
- 3c6d2d69e7bcaf3378ec78764703bf4a6ad7c8d7.jpg
- 6a236404385f1750e81b646e751d003493392a8e.jpg
- 2f8f2c5693ab8ed15e41360ba24f3102a76cbb36.jpg
- fe05d32546a50adbd2c165db9e9f864107ba1962.jpg
- 95cb9ce06abaaaed42a395606bd001e3bcc4bfdc.jpg
- 16e2ff184f6aa199e4f1790eb000da33ec5821bb.jpg
- 2dbb802def3d26c19ba99898051328ed8237a1c9.jpg
- 6d86865505bcfe40458f809e1eac07360d1c474c.jpg
- 182f989e85a60f85320dd4148594c4baede7aa0b.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- attention
- proofs of attachment
- imminent danger
- recovering my health
- great troubles
- civil war
- resolution
notable_locations:
- Paris
- Georgia
- New York
- France
- Europe
- Russia
- Holland
- Brabant
- England
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Brigadier DuPlessis
- Count d'Estaing
- G Turner
- Mrs. Knox
- King of Prussia
- Print Stadtholden
- Emperor
- French Marine
- Count de Rochambeau
- Society of the Cincinnati
- General Assembly
- Foreign officers
- de la Forest, Consul General of France
note: An enclosure is present but it is in French.
omeka_id: 38914
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Society of the Cincinnati
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Paris
title: Giving Thanks to General Knox
year: '1787'
---



Paris, Sept. 10th. 1787

Translation]

From Brigadier Du [Plefis] 
for his Diploma [in [confiquence 
of Admifsion]  obtained in  <ins>Georgia</ins>] 
_ with some Observations on 
Count d’Estaing as the <ins>Senior</ins> 
Officer of both the Land & Navy 
Forces.

Produced in Extra-Meels.
c May 1788.
 G. Turner 
A. L. G.

[upside down text]
Translation of a letter from
Brigadier Genl. du Plefsis
dated Paris 10th. Sept. 1787
[flourish]

Paris 10<sup>th</sup> September 1787

Sir/

I had the honor to return you thanks, on my arsenal <s>here from</s> in Georgia for <s>the head</s>your obliging attention <s>you found me</s>during my^stay in<s>went to</s>New York-Being^now arrived in France. my first care^is <s>has been</s>to renew <s>a</s> my gratitude <s>for your friendship and to request you</s>to you + to beg <s>to</s> you will command me on all Occasions in which I can be of [undecipherable] Servicable <s>to you in France and ahead</s>I will in France to either you or Mr. Knox; <s>I request to be</s> persuaded that no person will be more happy to give you proofs of attachment then myself.

You know the risques I ran in Georgia from the unhealthiness of the place I inhabited, being in imminent dangers for four months, without the hope of recovery, had I not decided on returning to France, where I find myself in the midst of my family and friends occupying myself in the recovering my health. I already am much better, and the weakness occasioned by to my long illness has already left me.

Europe <s>experiences</s>at this instant experiences great troubles-The Porte has declared War against Russia-Holland is in a Civil War and it cannot besaid what will be the consequence-The King of Prussia is marching troops to Support his Nephew the Prince Stadtholden- The Emperor is at War with his subjects in Brabarts and there is a probability of much blood being [undecipherable] -England to the present is neuter, as we also are-

and I presume that their conduct will determine ours.

The Count D. Estaing <s>was the Gener</s> is the Dist.Lieutenant Genl. of the land troops , who <s>to ok those whose</s> served in America and as he is Vice Admiral of the French Marine, there cannot be a doubt that he was the oldest Officer of both the Army and Marine. He is Senior by 18^years to Count de Kochambeau. I would inform you at present for your government that you may address to Count DEstaing upon every thing relative to the Society of the Cincinnati or which relates to America.

The ^General Assembly <s>of the States</s> held at Philadelphia in May last, "the proceedings of which I have read , Resolved that there should be delivered to you our hundred and fifty diplomas, for the Foreign Officers who were Members if the Cincinnati.

I pray you dear General to address to me by Mr. dela Forest Consulgeneral of France at N York my brevet of the Society into which I was admitted to the 19<sup>th</sup> Oct. 1786 in the State of Georgia, you will do me a great favor, im not loosing ^anytime in having it forwarded to me.

Adieu my dear Genl. + receive the assurance of my sincere attachment and profound respect.

(signed)<ins>DuPlessess</ins> Brigadier Genl. of the Kings Armies,late Govr. of the<br />
Island of St. Vincents. <br />
Rue St. Marc N.<sup>o</sup>11.<br />
The Hon<sup>ble</sup>Genl Knox  Paris
