---
authors:
- Joseph Howell
collection_id: 562
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers.
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:17+00:00'
day: '18'
description: Joseph Howell, Office of Army Accounts, informs Senator William Grayson of the reasons for denying the claims of members of the Virginia Line.  Paperwork was improperly filed.  Mentioned Capt.
  Heth was entitled to the pay he did not receive, but must request documentation from the paymaster.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1787101815001'
omeka_image_id: 13583
images:
- 772c27f2474aa14f4f2e842d6bfa05be2dfa2faa.jpg
- 2e77053a60ad7743b16b09e809a82f4fc8f09fc3.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- claim
- documents
- returns
- pay roll
notable_locations:
- Office of Army Accounts
- Virginia
- Richmond
notable_persons:
- William Grayson
- Joseph Howell
- Dunscomb
- James Davis
- Harrel
- John Sorrel
- Thomas Sorrell
- John Farrell
- senator
- Virginia line
- Heth
- colonel
- paymaster
- Buckner
- Drummond
omeka_id: 38970
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- William Grayson
repositories:
- Virginia Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Office of Army Accounts
title: Claims Denied
year: '1787'
---



Office of Army Accounts 
New York October 18 1787
Sir, 
In compliance with your request relative to the claims for pay of Captain James Davis, Ens. John Sorrell, Thomas Sorrell & John Farrell. I beg leave to inform you that the Act of Congress of November [undecipherable] 1783 forecloses their claims. 
If Captain Davis had presented his claim in due season I should have rejected it in its present form, the pay Rolls of the Virginia Line being at Richmond puts it out of my Power to ascertain whether this Officer was included in them as a Supernumerary Officer of Colonel Heth's Regiment, which might have been the case if the money still be in the hands of the paymaster of the Regiment, it is therefore necessary that Captain Davis should qualify to his not receiving his pay, or procure a Certificate from the paymaster that it has not been drawn from the United States. 
Farrel's Claim is proper no other objection arrises that the Act of Congress to a settlement with him. 
[undecipherable] pay of those soldiers who died or were killed was always enclosed in the Pay Rolls to the day of their death, I therefore presume the United States is discharged from the Claim of Thomas Sorrell. 
Mr. Buckner has left me in the da[undecipherable] as of the time of service of Ensign Sorrell, altho' he died after the War he does not say he continued to the End of it - [undecipherable] as [undecipherable]
Mr. Dunscomb has not noticed him in any of his Returns to this Office, I suppose he must have resigned or have been Supernumerar, I would recommend Mrs. Sorrell to apply to the State for if her Son were enttitled to depreciation she will receive it, if [undecipherable] application will be unnecessary.
I am Sir
your Obed Sert
Joseph Howell Junr
