---
authors:
- Josiah Harmar
collection_id: 973
collections:
- Alfred T. Goodman Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:18+00:00'
day: '24'
description: 'Reports a fatiguing march with Ensign McDowell, 30 men, and 2 Indians: Pachan, a Miami chief, and his commande, who hunted and supplied the company with meat. Describes geography. Welcomed
  by magistrate and inhabitants of Kaskaskia and Baptiste DeCoigne, the Kaskaskian chief, who presented him with a peace pipe. Received visits also from Peoria, Cahokia, Mitchi, and Illinois Indians. Describes
  the Kaskaskia village and the surrounding settlements. Were entertained by Monsieur Cruzat, the Spanish Commandant at St. Louis. Recognizes General St. Clair''s appointment as governor of the Western
  Territory.'
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1787112440001'
omeka_image_id: 8559
images:
- ff90fb0be7e3e926f0ad50ceaf039f99aebe0379.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- Meat
- Buffalo
- Deer
- Prairies
- Meadows
- Garrison
- Bear
- Brush
- Underwood
- Calumet
- Village
- Stockade
- Cannon
- Buffalo
notable_locations:
- Kaskaskia
- Vincennes
- Wabash River
- Mississippi River
- Ohio River
- Prairie du Roche
- St. Philip
- La Bellefontaine
- Grand Ruisseau
- Cahakia
- St. Louis
- Missouri River
- Fort Chartres
- St. Genevive
- Western Territory
- settlements
- Spain
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Josiah Harmar
- Ensign McDowell
- Pachan
- Kaskaskia Magistrate
- Kaskaskia Indians
- Baptiste DeCoigne
- Peoria Indians
- Cahokia Indians
- Mitchi Indians
- Illinois Indians
- French Inhabitants
- Bartholomew Tardiveau
- Congress
- Monsieur Cruzat
- Spanish Troops
- Monsieur Peruse
- Arthur St. Clair
- Governor Western Territory
- Spanish Commandant
omeka_id: 39039
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Western Reserve Historical Society History Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Kaskaskia
title: Describes Territory, People, Indians Surrounding Kaskaskia
year: '1787'
---



Kaskaskia, November 24, 1787
Sir: -- I marched on the 9th of August from the post
(Vincennes) with a subaltern, Ensign McDowell, and thirty men, 
through the prairies, and arrived at Kaskaskia on the 
16th of the same month.  Our march was very fatigueing,
as the weather was excessively warm, and water very
bad and scarce on the route. The distance is about one
hundred and eighty sixty miles; the French call it eighty leagues.
I was accompanied by two Indians, (Pachan, a Miami
Chief and his Comrade) who hunted and supplied the party
with meat (buffalo & deer) both [editor's note: author crossed out undecipherable word] on the march and
upon our return.
The prairies are very extensive, natural meadows, 
covered with long grass; one in particular, which
we crossed, was eight leagues in breadth. They run
in general, from North to South, and like the Ocean,
as far as the eye can see, the view is terminated by the
horison. Here and there a copse of wood is interspersed.
They are free from brush and underwood, and not the
least vestige of their ever having been cultivated. The
country is excellent for grazing, and abounds in [editor's note: author crossed out undecipherable word] buffalo,
deer, bear &c. It is a matter of speculation to account
for the formation of the prairies. The western side of
the Wabash if overflown in the Spring, for several miles.
On the 17th, I was visited by the Magistrate and prin-
-cipal in habitants of Kaskaskia, welcoming us upon our
arrival.  Baptiste De Coigne, the Chief of the
Kaskaskia Indians, paid me a visit in the afternoon,
and delivered me a speech expressive of the
greatest friendship for the United States; and at 
the same time presented me with one of the Calumets or 
pipes of peace, which is now sent on. Some of the
Peoria Indians likewise visited me. The Kaskasias,
Peorias, Cahokia and Mitchi tribes compare the
Illinois Indians. They are almost extinct at
present, not exceeding forty or fifty, Total.
Kaskaskia is a handsome little village, situated
on a river of the same name, which empties into the
Mississippi at two leagues distant from it. It is one
hundred and five miles from the mouth of the Ohio; the
situation low and unhealthy, and subject to inun-
-dation. The inhabitants are French, and much of
the same class as there at Post Vincennes; their
number is one hundred and ninety one, old men and
young. Having but very little time to spare, I left
Lieutenant McDowell with the party at Kaskaskia,
and on the 18th set out, accompanied by Mr
Tardiveau and the gentleman of the village for Cahokia.
We gained Prairie Du Rocher, a small village five
french leagues from Kaskaskia, where we halted
for the night.
On the 19th we passed through St. Philip, a trifling village
three leagues distant from Prairie Du Rocher, and dined
at La Bellefontaine, six leagues further. La Bel-
-lefontaine is a small stockade, inhabited altogether
by Americans, who have seated themselves there without
authority. It is a beautiful situation, fine fertile land,
no taxation, and the inhabitants have abundance to live upon. They
were exceedlingly alarmed when I informed them
of their precarious state respecting a title to
their possessions, and have now sent on a 
petition to Congress by Mr Tardiveau. On the same
day we passed another small stockade,
called Grand Ruisseau, inhabited by the same
sort of Americans as those at La Bellefontaine,
and arrived at Cahokia that evening.
Cahokia is a village nearly ^of the size as that of
Kaskaskia and inhabited by the same kind
of people; their number two hundered and
thirty nine, old men and young. I was
received with the greatest hospitality by the
inhabitants. There was a decent submission
and respect in their behavior. Cahokia is 
distant from Kaskaskia twenty two French leagues,
which is about fifty miles.-
On the 21st, in consequence of an invitation
from Monsieur Cruzat, the Spanish Commandant
at St Louis, we crossed the Mississippi, and were
very politely entertained by him. After dinner, we
returned to Cahokia.-
St. Louis (nicknamed Pancorn) is much the handsomest
and genteelest village I have seen on the Mississippi.
It is about four miles distant from Cahokia, and
five leagues above it the Missouri unites with the 
Mississippi. The inhabitants are of the same sort as
before described, excepting that they are more wealthy. About
twenty regular Spanish troops are stationed here.
Exclusive of the intruders already described, there
are about thirty more Americans settled on the rich
fertile bottoms of the Mississippi, who are likewise
petitioning by this conveyance.
On the 23d, I passed by the ruins of
Fort Chartres, which is one league above Prairie 
Du Rocher, and situate on the Mississippi. It was 
built of stone, and must have been a considerable
fortification formerly, but the post next the river
has been carried away by the floods, and it is of
no consequence at present. I staid about a
quarter of an hour, but had not time to view it
minutely, as it was all a thicket within. Severl
iron pieces of cannon are here at present, and also
at the different villages. This evening I returned
to Kaskaskia.
On the 24th, Monsieur Peruse, the Spanish commandant
at St. Genevieve, sent me an invitation to pay him a
visit. We crossed the Mississippi accordingly;
were politely entertained, and after dinner
returned to Kaskaskia.-
St. Genevieve (nicknamed Misere) is a village much
inferior in every respect to St. Louis; it is about four
miles (including the passage of the Mississippi) from
Kaskaskia. About eight or ten regular Spanish 
troops are stationed here.
We arrived on the 7th of [editor's note: author crossed out undecipherable word] October, at the
rapids of the Ohio. The distance from Post Vincennes
is about one hundred and thirty miles. We saw no
Indians nor signs of Indians. We had an action
with five [editor's note: author crossed out undecipherable word] buffalo, who would have run
through the column had they not been prevented
by the men facing and firing a volley at them. They
killed three of them.
I am happy to hear of General St. Clair's appoint-
-ment as Governer of the Western Territory, as it will
add to the dignity of Congress.
Your most obedient Servant,
[editor's note: signed] Jos. Harmar.
