---
authors:
- Josiah Harmar
collection_id: 973
collections:
- Alfred T. Goodman Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:18+00:00'
day: '19'
description: Refers to several recent congressional resolutions, one for Virginia to provide militia to support the troops against the Indians (savages). Expresses concern about people of Kentucky forming
  expeditions against federal efforts to work with Indians. Reports payment of provisions to Mr. Bradshaw for recent expedition to Post Vincennes. Expresses discouragement over lack of supplies and use
  of personal funds for the garrison. Kentucky abounds in cheap supplies. Encloses returns and the number of people who have emigrated.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter fragment
document_number: '1787120940101'
omeka_image_id: 19042
images:
- 449726b8d880006878998f79c339c25c706b3214.jpg
- 174cd102e7da979f70656a9b8aebfe72208c97fc.jpg
- a41e224fe4934ca3feb93eb5420d97ba67fd7b41.jpg
- 26eb50e8325b18be4e5cdeeb2316755581d2058d.jpg
- 13e92ff20ec9d1db1b8fed58bec7fd57b39dca41.jpg
- 00cddcd2ed0516c970cfb8550586a695ee350c1c.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- Federal Authority
- Regulations
- Treaties
- Provisions
- Expeditions
- Garrison
- Charter
- Returns
- congressional resolutions
- expedition
- Indian relations
- state versus federal authority
- supplies
- emigration
notable_locations:
- Fort Harmar
- Virginia
- Kentucky
- Post Vincennes
- Ohio River
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Josiah Harmar
- Bartholomew Tardiveau
- Congress
- Militia
- Troops
- Indians
- Mr. Bradshaw
- Mssrs. Britt & Co.
- Mssrs. Turnball, Marmie & Co.
- Treasury Department
- Contractors
- French Settlers
note: In unbound marked journal marked "correspondence of General josiah Harmar transcribed by the War Department 1812."
omeka_id: 39064
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Western Reserve Historical Society History Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Fort Harmar
title: Reports Activity at Fort Harmar; Expresses Concern for Supplies
year: '1787'
---



Extract of a letter from Brigadier General Josiah Harmar to the Secretary at War dated at Fort Harmar, Dec.r9.th1787.
Sir
I had the honor of receiving your last on the 24thult. by Mr. Bartholemew Tardiveau, since which nothing particular has happened in this quarter. 
I now have to acknowledge the receipt of the original and duplicate of your letter of the 19thof June, and your letter of the 24thJuly, enclosing me the resolve of Congress passed on the 21stof the same month.
After maturely and seriously weighing the matter for calling upon the State of Virginia for 1000 Militia to co-operate with the regular troops against the Savages (which powers Congress has been pleased to invest me with) provided they were generally hostile, there was nothing appeared in my opinion to justify me in making the application.
Your letter of August 2nd was received at the Post which covered the duplicate letter of July 24th and a duplicate of the resolve of Congress of July 21st.
I likewise have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 4th October enclosing me the resolves of Congress of the 3rd October.
Respecting the payment of provisions furnished by Mr. Bradshaw, the following are the circumstances.  The enclosed letter of mine dated May 19th will show that very early application was made on my part to Messrs. Britt & Co. to make the necessary arrangements for supplying me for
expedition to Post Vincennes.  At that time and long afterwards I knew of no further engagement entered into with Messrs. Turnball Marmie & Co. by the Board of Treasury for the supply.  From either inability, or inatention previous to that upon their part, which I sufficiently experienced by having been obliged to expend nearly L.100 in specie from my private person for the support of this Garrison, otherwise to have abandoned it.  From these facts I presume you will judge, that there are suf-ficient inducements for me to place no farther dependance upon them.  I was actuated by this principle only, that the expedition should not be retarded.  Kentucky abounded in provisions, to be procured cheap and rapidly which determined me upon the steps which I have taken.  The new Contractors have paid the bills drawn by Mr. Bradshaw, as they were refused payment by Mr. Marmie.
You have been pleased to approve of my conduct in the order of march frmo the Ohio to Post Vincennes, which is highly pleasing.  It shall ever be my study to merit your approba-tion.
I hope before this letter reaches you that Mr. Tardiveau has arrived, by whom I wrote a minute and particular account of all my transactions until the 24thult.  A duplicate was not sent, as I esteemed it a safe and speedy conveyance.  The circumstances of the French at Post Vincennes giving up their charter and trusting to the generosity of Congress I believe will have a good effect.  At any rate a stop was put to their magistrates selling the public lands.
It is impossible at present to ascertain the number of men who will actually re-engage, but I shall use every endeavor to complete the
object, and shall inform you in a short time what my prospects are.  Be pleased to receive the enclosed return of the expiration of the mens time.  The contingent money which is in my hands would forward the business.  I wish to know your views upon the subject.
The regiment in all its parts shall be mustered agreeably to your orders up to the last of the present month.
I shall issue orders that all accounts for apprehending deserters shall be presented to me for my approbation and shall then (agreeably to your directions) sign the same.
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 16thOctober, enclosing me the resolve of Congress of the 13thOctober respecting Mr. Sullivan.
If this mutineer should set his foot upon the federal territory he shall be seized.
confined according to your order.
Merely for transmitting to you information concerning this western world, I have continued to order the Officer of the Day to take an account of the people emigrating down the river.
From the 1stJune to this day there has passed this Garrison bound for Kentucky, 146 boats, 3176 souls, 1381 horses, 165 Waggons, 171 Cattle, 245 sheep & 24 hogs.
Be pleased to receive the enclosed monthly return of the dated the 1stinstant. x  x  x
