---
authors:
- Major General Richard Butler
collection_id: 979
collections:
- Jonathan Cass Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:18+00:00'
day: '23'
description: Discusses the effect of recent Congressional decisions upon U.S.-Indian relations, and asks for a specific treaty meeting with the Delawares and Shawnees.  Professes U.S. goodwill toward the
  Indians.
doc_types:
- Document Signed
document_number: '1787122390001'
omeka_image_id: 18209
images:
- b0e3bfa3461f2f619a9f3e7663ce34a957eb82eb.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- Indian relations
- treaty
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
notable_persons:
- Indians
- congress
- Delawares
- Shawnee
- Richard Butler
note: Essential duplicate of a document sent to the Shawnee & Delaware tribes.
omeka_id: 39089
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: To the Chiefs, Warriors and others of the Delaware Nation.
recipients:
- Chiefs of the Delawares
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: To the Chiefs and Warriors of the Delaware Nation, Concerning Past & Future Treaties
year: '1787'
---



To the Chiefs Warriers & others of the Delaware nation
Brothers,
In a message which is sent you, by order of Congress, which is the great council of the United States dated at Carlisle the
third day of August 1787 delivered at Sanduskie by George Lovelace I told you that
Congress had taken the Representation of the Indian nations Dated Decr. 18th 1786 [overstrike: 7] into
thus Serious considerations & would give an ans:r thereto in due time.
I now inform you by James Rinkey & William Willan that Congress in consiquence of said Representation
were pleased by a Resolution dated the 27th Day of October last to Authorize the
Honble the Governor of the Western Territory and (myself) the Superintendant
of Indian Affairs for the northern District Invite & meet the Chiefs of the
Five Nations, Delawares, Wiandots, Chippawas, Ottawas, Skomias, Shawanas.,  Wabash & all other Indian nations within the said northern District
which Extends from the middle of the Lakes South to the Ohio & west to the
Mississippi Rivers, in order to hold a General Treaty with you & them for the purpose
(if Possible) of setting & removing all just complaints and uneasiness
Supposed to Exist between the United States & the Indian Nations; and to establish a
Peace which shall be lasting. 
It is intended that the Treaty will be held at the
Falls of Muskingum about Sevinty miles west said River from the Ohio on
the first day of May next 1788  or as soon as possible after that day - I therefore
Expect your Chiefs will not fail to Attend, and that you & the Wiandots, 
will gain & send this Invitation through the nation to inform & collect the
Western Chiefs punctually, as we shall endeavour to have Evry thing
ready to Recieve you & them at that time & Place.

The Resolution of Congress must convince
you of thus Friendly & Pacific disposition toward the Indian nations.
And I hope will induce you all to come with hearts disposed to 
perpetual Peace & Friendships with the United States
I am your Real Friend & Brother
Richd. Butler 
Superintendt. Indn. Affrs. Northn Distr
Dated at Pittsburgh the 23d Day of Decr 1787 —
