---
author_note: US Commissioners of Southern Indians
authors:
- Andrew Pickens
collection_id: 682
collections:
- Andrew Pickens Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:19+00:00'
day: '29'
description: Complaint to the Creek Indians of the alleged violation of a peace agreement between Georgia and the Creek Nation, following the killing of two whites and the plunder of others. The Creek Nation
  is informed that Congress has authorized each southern state to appoint a commissioner to Indian Affairs, and that their authority must be respected if peace is to be maintained. A second letter is attached,
  addressed to a commissioner, with instructions on how to properly subjugate the Creeks to Georgian authorities.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1788032990001'
omeka_image_id: 9091
images:
- 274c099cdf5f3c4ec1d60589a442b679814892ef.jpg
- 0e132a2682a5f189fd78ca528eef94a9ae15894c.jpg
- 88f3a4173d764673a8ec94907e2042206cbb20dc.jpg
- b57c17db72633a18ee4cc748328112d8d6ee37a7.jpg
month: '03'
notable_locations:
- Georgia
- North Carolina
- South Carolina
- Creek Nation
notable_persons:
- General Alexander McGillivray
- Creek
- George Mathews
- Alexander Pickens
- Indians
note: A second letter is attached, addressed to a commissioner, with instructions on how to properly subjugate the Creeks to Georgian authorities.
omeka_id: 39217
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: Headman of Creeks
recipients:
- Creek Chiefs
repositories:
- Huntington Library
resource_type: Document
title: Instructions to the leaders of the Creek Nation
year: '1788'
---



Coppy from the Commissioners to the Chiefs of the Creek Nation
29th March 1788
To Alexr McGillvray Esqe and the rest of the head Men and Warriors of the Upper and lower Creek Nation
Men and Warriors - 
In consequence of some disputes that had unluckily arisen between you and Our Sister State of Georgia - The United States in Congress Assembled did in the course of last year send as their Agent there beloved Man Doctr White to your country to learn from your own Mouths the grounds of complaint and the reasons for your hostile proceedings.  He was favourably received by you and it was thought from what past between you and him, that upon his representation to Congress everything would have returned to a friendly footing, he having obtained your promise that no depredations should be commited on any of the Citizens of these States - from some unhappy fatality or gross mistake casualty in express violation of that promise - two of our people were killed & others plundered of property before it was possible for Congress to to receive or take any visitation upon Doctr Whites representation.  However being still anxious to bring about a General Peace upon a strong and permanent footing, they have throught proper to appoint an Agent with a recommendation of a Commissioner from each of the different States of No Carolina, So Carolina & Georgia that should you meet their ideas & wishes for peace - They might recuse a deputation of your head Men & Warriors at a certain time & place in order to talk over an discuss every complaint or cause of uneasiness that may possibly have lead to these outrages and to present the further shedding of innocent blood.  "In consequence of this recommendation Georgia So Carolina have thought proper to appoint us. The Agent and Commission from No Carolina are not yet come forward but as it is our wish to further and promote so good a work and as soon as possible to heal those wounds we have thought fit to send to you to see if your minds are now so disposed for peace.  We can say for our own parts that we have the strongest desires to fulfill the wishes of Congress, which are to give peace.
Peace and Stability to all the Citizens of the Union, upon just, reasonable and equitable principals to every Nation or People who may feel a wish to be their friends.  Where not fact so recent it might appear like [undecipherable] to say they feel [a power?] at all times to do themselves justice should the voice of reason and equity not prevail.  
Should you be disposed to meet this friendly interposition you will see the impropriety of treating with Arms in hand and we shall acquiesce and in the most pointed terms insist upon as a first principal that any hostile procedures should instantly cease

We send this Talk to you by our friend Mr Whitefield who possessing our full confidence we have commited a great deal to him, he is known to many of you and we hope you will freely rely upon whatever he may say to you - hoping to meet you at a future day in a friendly manner we conclude and wait your answer
Signed
Andw Pickens
Geo Mathews
Fort Charlotte 29th March 1788
Geo. Whitefield Esqe
Sir, 
We shall be glad you would proceed to the Creek Nation with a talk from us to Alexander McGillvray Esqe and the rest of the head Men and Warriors of that Nation agreeable to Your promise.  For your Government in this business we would recommend and point out the following hints & information which you will please to take the most proper time to communicate to in conversation with Mr McGillvray and the other head Men 
It will be necessary to acquaint them, the Assembly of Georgia, in their last Session gave to Congress the following land from the 31st Degree of So latitude to the Confluences of the Apalachacola or Chatahuches River thence due North 140 Miles - then due West to the Mississippi
It would not be amiss to hint the permanency and Security that may come from a generous extension of limits which should not be too circumscribed.  The precarious situation of persons possessing property under the Spanish Government particularly where those persons are not Natives, this idea may be strengthened by referring to the principals on which they hold the Trust of not supplying the Indians but with a stipulated quantity of Ammunition Arms &c.
Thes most favourable suggestions may be thrown out to every honest Man who may wish to become a Citizen of the Union particularly Messrs Moore, Panton & McGillvray.  
We should be happy to see a full deputation of principal head Men as little encumbered with Young Men, Women, or boys, as possible provided they should be disposed to treat.  And in which last case, we must request that they would point this time most convenient to themselves.  Attendance shall be pointedly given on our parts and a place fixed on as remote from the settlement as possible consistant with the convenience of procuring provision and of which place they shall be directly informed.
It is not now the hunting season therefore no Indian can be on the frontiers but for the purpose of depredation.  It will therefore be necessary to call them home and in which case no possible will can arise from the posts established along the line withdrawing of which would be needless and improper.  
We wish the business to be conducted freely and openly and without an Idea of intimidating You may with truth assure them Arms Ammunition and field pieces have been sent forward from Congress to be used in case of necessity.  As we must assure you the wish of Congress is to establish peace upon the grounds of equity and Justice, so They will not stand by and tamely see any branch of the Union robbed of its Citizens but upon these principals are one Arm.
Should you be met in desire of peace we wish you to assure them the most inviolable attention will be given to these ease and security.  
We wish you a good Journey and safe return and are 
Sir You very Hble Servts 
(Signed) Andw Pickens [and] Geo Mathews
