---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 627
collections:
- 'Gratz Collection: Generals of the Revolution'
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:20+00:00'
day: '03'
description: Recruiting prospects, large company books forwarded. Knox does not approve of soldiers selling their pay arrears. Lists all the supplies and money they currently receive as substantial benefits.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1788060300001'
omeka_image_id: 7274
images:
- 1377083c12b3467ff5f8dbf900c864b3d1d6fb21.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- recruiting service
- company books
- march
- stores
- arrearages of pay
- pay
- rations
- clothing
notable_locations:
- War Office
- frontier
notable_persons:
- David Zeigler
- Henry Knox
- Captain Bradford
- Brigadier General Harmar
omeka_id: 39313
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- David Zeigler
repositories:
- 'Historical Society Of Pennsylvania: Manuscript Department'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Recruiting and Pay
year: '1788'
---



1788
June From Major
3d General Knox
Secretary at War
to Captain David Ziegler
[editor's note: to the right of the vertically aligned date, there is a larger bracket } between the date and the heading "From Major General Knox]
War Office, June 3.d 1788
Sir
Your letters of the 20th and 30th at time o have been received-
I am exceedingly desirous that your complement of men should be recruited as soon as possible, and therefore I am sorry that your prospects are less [indecipherable] than when you first commenced the recruiting service.
Company books of the large kind are forwarded by Captain Bradford for the whole regiment. Any temporary arrangement therefore will [undecipherable] your purposes until your arrival on the [indecipherable].
When you march an arrangement must be made for the accommodation of some stores for Brigadier General Harmar. It is not however probable that he can possibly require a whole waggon for his own use.
As to any of your soldiers selling their arrears of pay, I cannot countenance the measure. The men ought to be checked in any such
such improper desires. They have lately received three months pays and they will from time to time receive their arrearages. They are supplied with rations and clothing, and they should not to be [indecipherable of their arrearages for less than its proper value, especially as all necessaries are fur-nished them. They will receive another month's pay previous to their departure. I presume that these reasons will have equal influence on your conduct as an officer whose reputation is deservedly established. 
I am
[indecipherable]
Your humble serv.
Knox
Captain David Zeigler,
