---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 855
collections:
- Benjamin Lincoln Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:21+00:00'
day: '13'
description: Constitution debated, many man unhappy with its contents.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1788061300001'
omeka_image_id: 21095
images:
- c79fd7101ce41fdf736ee39b3a713c41dcc1ac35.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- Constitution
notable_locations:
- New York
- Boone town
- Morris town
- Rhode Island
- Virginia
notable_persons:
- Benjamin Lincoln
- Henry Knox
- Samuel Ogden
- Faesh
omeka_id: 39333
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Benjamin Lincoln
repositories:
- Massachusetts Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Approval of Constitution
year: '1788'
---



New York 13 June 1788 [notation in another hand in upper right corner:] 2.
My dear Sir
I received your favor of the 6th instant 
and its enclosure by the post last evening, and it 
will be forwarded to Mr Faesh to morrow so that 
he will receive it on the same day.  He resides 
at Booneton, about 9 miles east of Morris Town 
the same place formerly occupied by Mr Saml 
Ogden.
The proposed constitution seems to 
be as well received as could have been conjectured 
by the most sanguine.  The proposition was complex 
in itself and subject to a thousand misrepresentations. 
It is not suprizing that it has had its 
enemies.  Mankind are infinitely deversified 
in their situations and faculties, and being 
constrained by local circumstances to view 
the same
same object through different mediums and 
with different apparatus, it is no wonder that 
their conceptions and opinions should be different.  
Happy indeed is it for the public and I hope 
for posterity that so many states have already 
agreed to it and that none have rejected 
excepting Rhode Island.  The conduct of 
the majority of that state - The insurrections of 
Massachusetts, and the opposition to the impost 
by New York have been the corrosive means 
of rousing america to an attention to her liberties - 
Thank Heaven a government is proposed which 
in case of a storm will sheild the principle 
of liberty and its votaries from the rude attacks 
of anarchy and tyranny.
Eight States have already adopted 
the Constitution, and there is good reason to believe 
that Virginia will also receive it on the plan of 
Massachusetts - You may cherish the hope 
my dear
dear friend that by the 4th of July you will receive 
the information that Virginia is the 9th State 
which has ratified the Constitution
How far Virginia's acceptance will 
influence the conduct of this state is uncertain 
as the Antifederalists have a decided Majority of 
47 out of 66.  Their present policy appears to 
be to postpone to a distant day.  This will be 
more deadly than a rejection, and they mean 
it shall have that operation - In every event 
however of their conduct they will find 3/7ths 
of the state as ready to oppose them as they 
seem inclined to believe, the minorities of the other 
states will be to support them
The real disposition of New 
Hampshire seems to be concealed - we cannot 
learn any thing decisive respecting her intentions.  
Should she reject the constitution, she would be 
blind indeed!  North Carolina will follow Virginia - 
permit me 
my
my dear friend to congratulate you on the 
affection manifested for you by your fellow 
Citizens on your late election to the office of 
Lieut Governor.  Mrs Knox presents her 
love to you, and I hope to take you by the 
hand in Boston in about 3 weeks time
In the mean time 
I am your truly 
sincere friend
H Knox
Genl Lincoln
[Docket in margin in another hand] 
Gen. Knox 
June 13 1788
