---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 876
collections:
- Henry Miller Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:21+00:00'
day: '23'
description: Knox notifies Joseph Martin of his appointment as U.S. agent to the Cherokee Nation.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1788062300101'
omeka_image_id: 12140
images:
- 76a7ca4985cddc1a09f74397676009c680ea960c.jpg
month: '06'
notable_locations:
- War Office
notable_persons:
- Joseph Martin
- Henry Knox
omeka_id: 39351
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Joseph Martin
repositories:
- 'State Historical Society of Wisconsin: Archives Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Knox informs Martin of appointment
year: '1788'
---



War Office, June 23rd, 1788

Sir,

I have the honor to inform you of your being appointed Agent for the Cherokee Nation of Indians, agreeably to the enclosed refolve of Congrefs of the 19th of June 1788.
I alfo enclose you the ordinance of Congrefs pafsed on the 7th August 1786 for the regulation of the indian department.
You will observe by your appointment that you are to act in fubordination to the Superintendent with whom you will constantly communicate respecting your proceedings.
I beg leave to observe that the affairs of the United States are fo circumftanced as to render the most rigid oeconomy necefsary in all their tranfactions, and that no expenses for prefents to or expenditures refpecting the indians will be allowed unlefs by the fpecial direction of Congrefs.
The
The particular fituation of the Cherokees requiring the immediate attention of Congrefs, they have been pleafed to appoint you to that tribe in which you are believed to have much influence.
It may be afserted to be the fincere defire of Congrefs to exhibit to all the indians a conduct perfectly moderate and just - ready at all times to listen to the reafonable complaints of the indians - and to afford them protection when injured.
It will be expected that you particularly inveftigate the grievances of the Cherokees, and ftate them to Congrefs, who will afford all the relief that the nature of the case may admit.
You will obferve by the enclofed acts of Congrefs of the 26th of October 1787 of their attention to the affairs of the Fouthern Indians the treaties therein directed to be held being intended as the bafis of a firm friendship with the indians.
You will please to transfer it to me, from time to time, every information necefsary to be
be fubmitted to Congrefs, and you will alfo pleafe to inform me of the means by which I shall communicate with you.
I am
Sir
Your Moft obed.
& very humble Serv.
Knox
Secretary of War
Colonel Joseph Martin
