---
author_note: Joseph Howell
authors:
- Joseph Howell
collection_id: 782
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:22+00:00'
day: '21'
description: Settlement of accounts due to Major Fauntleroy, who was held captive.
doc_types:
- Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1788072121155'
omeka_image_id: 23606
images:
- b29080448056924ba093e9b9663d9a78c1dcf9d4.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- pay
- rations
notable_locations:
- Office of Army Accounts, New York
- auditor's office
- Virginia
notable_persons:
- Major Pendelton
- Joseph Howell
- Major Moore Fauntleroy
- auditor general of army accounts
- Colonel Moylan
- Colonel Moylan's Regiment
- captive
- prisoner
- Mr. Pierce
omeka_id: 39430
page_start: '116'
recipients:
- Major Pendelton
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Office of Army Accounts, New York
title: Accounts of Major Moore Fauntleroy of Colonel Moylan's Regiment of Light Dragoons
year: '1788'
---



Office of Army Accounts New York July 21. 1788
Sir
On a partial settlement of the accounts of Major Moore Fauntleroy late of Colo. Maylans Regt. of Light Dragoons, there appears a balance due from him to the United States in the Sum of one hundred and ten dollars and 18/90 cents which sum you will please to debit the s. Major Fauntleroy on the settlement of his account of depreciation, and transmit a certificate thereof to this office that I may close his account.
I am informed that the State of Virgiia has extended the depreciation of pay and rations to the Officers &c. of their line to 1 Jany 1782. in this instance for you will please to admit depreciation of pay no farther than the 1st. of Augt. 1780. as the accounts of the regiment to which Major Fauntleroy belonged have 117
have been settled by me from that period and in which he is included from the time of his exchange from captivity __ there are several charges against Major Fauntleroy for supplies &c. received by him during his captivity, to those charges I shall oppose the rations due him from the day of his captivity to the time of his exchange, his rations from the last period to the first of Jany. 1782 have been also settled with the Regiment, you will therefore be please settle only his pay from the date of commission to the 1st August 1780. __
Mr. Pierce's indisposition prevents him from attending to the business of the office, which now devolves on [illegible]
Your most obdt. Servt
J. Howell Jr.
Major Pendleton auditor for the State of Virginia
