---
author_note: John Stagg
authors:
- John Stagg
collection_id: 871
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers.  [microfilm]
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:24+00:00'
day: '02'
description: Letter, discusses packing and shipping of clothing; discusses Pratt's march; mentions illness of William Knox.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1788110215001'
omeka_image_id: 13299
images:
- 734fd7d131873acef78f85f49166a538931bb120.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- president's time of service is expired
- execution of the duties of the office
- business of the department
- neglected
- Congress
- dollars
- accepted and paid
- money is deposited in the bank
- your account
- quarter's salary
- direction of your brother
- hands
- paper money
- advice
- ready to march
- ordered
- suits of uniform-clothing
- minutely inspected by one
- properly packed in boxes
- sent
- directions
- boxes, well made and secured
- properly marked
- vessel that has it on board sailed
- proper care will be taken of the clothing
- tents
- good materials
- garrison
- means of transportation for the clothing
- no difficulty in the business
- discretion and economy
- arrives
- immediately be orderedto sail
- War-Office
- further instructions
- contents
- due attention
- Orders for his immediate embarkation
- indisposition
- correspondence
- complaint
- more painful than dangerous
- letter
- estimate of expenses for the intended march
notable_locations:
- New York
- Caesar
- New Brunswick
- West Point
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- John Stagg
- Auoibert
- Burnside
- Underwood
- Hill
- Ensign Luse
- Captain Price
- Hodgdon
- Lieutenant Pratt
- (William) Knox
omeka_id: 39618
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: Henry Knox
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Pierpont Morgan Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Captain Stagg corresponds to Secretary at War
year: '1788'
---



Capt John Stagg
2d Novr 1788
New York, November 2nd, 1788
Sir.
The indisposition of Mr. Knox will not permit him at present to continue his correspondence, tho' I am in hopes that his complaint, which is more painful than dangerous, will in the course of a few days be so far removed as to enable him in some degree against to attend to it.  Your letter to him of the 21st ultimo, enclosing an estimate of expences for the intended march of Lieutenant Pratt, has been received.  I have the honor to inform you that due attention has been and will be paid to its contents.  
Lieutenant Pratt is not yet arrived - he is hourly expected - Orders for his immediate embarkation at West Point were forwarded to him from the War Office the 25th and 27th ultimo, and further instructions he must have received by Captain Price, who, in all probablity reached that garrison the 30th.  
Mr. Hodgdon has been written to, respecting the means of transportation for the clothing [ink blot] of Pratt's detachment from New [undecipherable due to blotting].
There appears to be no difficulty in the business - Discretion and Economy shall attend this object.
As soon as Lieutenant Pratt arrives he shall immediately be ordered to sail for New Brunswick, where he will receive his final instructions.  I myself will also repair thither to muster and inspect his men, and see that they march from thence without delay.
The 400 suits of Uniform clothing, which you were pleased to direct should be minutely inspected by me, and afterward properly packed in boxes, and sent to New Brunswick - these directions have been strictly attended to.  The clothing is contained in 24 boxes, well made and secured,, and properly marked and the vessel that has it on board sailed this morning.  Proper care will be taken of the clothing, when it arrives at New Brunswick, and that it goes forward with Lieutenant Pratt.
We have found it necessary to apply to Mr. Hill for ten new tents.  They are made, and of good materials.  
Ensign Luse has been ordered to repair to New Brunswick, and to be ready to march
The draft on Burnside and Underwood, for 506 dollars specie, is accepted, and paid.  The money is deposited in the Bank on your account.  
Your last quarter's salary, by direction of your brother, is placed in the hands of Mrs. Knox - It is all paper money.
By the advice of Mrs. Knox, I shall request Mr. Auoibert, who has very little to do, to attend in the office for a day or two - some person, besides Caesar should be there, whenever I am obliged, in the execution of the duties of the office, to be absent.  Rest assured sir, the business of the department shall not be neglected.  
There is no Congress as yet; very few members present - The President's time of service is expired.  
I have the honor to be 
Sir, 

with Sincere attachment,
Your most obedt. and 
very humble Servt: 
Jno Stagg Junr
H Knox
