---
authors:
- Josiah Harmar
collection_id: 973
collections:
- Alfred T. Goodman Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:24+00:00'
day: '15'
description: Discusses contracting out of border and land maintenance. Refers to the inhabitants of Kentucky and their intent to declare independence of Virginia and the U.S. Expresses concern to watch
  interests of Mr. Connolly, not trusting his character.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1788121554201'
omeka_image_id: 19044
images:
- c7d59368620f37a805d4ae34f3e12be6da838581.jpg
month: '12'
notable_locations:
- New York
- Fort Harmar
- Kawahwa
- Fort Pitt
- Kentucky
- Virginia
- Falls
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Joseph Harmar
- Lieutenant Kersey
- Ensign McDowell
- Mr. Cutler
- Mr. Sargent
- Geographer
- Mr. Ludlow
- Judge Symmes
- Indian Chiefs
- Major Wyllys
- Mr. Connolly
- Secretary of War
omeka_id: 39690
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Western Reserve Historical Society History Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Fort Harmar
title: Reports Activity at Fort Harmar; Concern for Supplies; Intents of Inhabitants to Separate from Virginia and U.S.
year: '1788'
---



Fort Harmar, December 15, 1788.
Sir: Lieutenant Kersey was at the great Kawahwa (eighty nine measured miles from this garrison) on the 1st instant; the party all well.  I have not heard of the party under Ensign McDowell, but I am in hopes that he has not been interrupted.  My calculation is that before Christmas the two exterior lines of Messrs. Cutler and Sargent's purchase will be completed.  The geographer is at present sick at Fort Pitt.  If he was able to come down, and take the latitude of the northern corner of the tenth township of the seventh range, Mr. Ludlow, who is a smart active young fellow, could run the northern boundary; the purchase money could then be paid.  That business finished, and in the spring the next affair would be, to take up Judge Symme's purchase.  Several chiefs of the different nations, arrived at this post the day before yesterday.  The inhabitants of Kentucky, I am informed have it in contemplation to declare themselves not only independent of the State of Virginia but of the United States altogether.  I have written to Major Wyllys to make me acquainted with their politics, and to watch closely the conduct of a certain Mr. Connolly who has hired a house at Falls, and from his base character, can certainly be planning no good for the United States.  
I have the honor &c 
Jos. Harmar
The Honorable Major General Knox,
Secretary of War, New York.  
[Stamped:  The material may be protected by Copyright Law, Title 17, U. S. Code.  The Western Reserve Historical Society, 10825 East Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio  44106.  Not to be reproduced without written permission of The Western Reserve Historical Society, 10825 East Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio  44106]
