---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 675
collections:
- Palfrey Family Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:26+00:00'
day: '11'
description: Knox informs Mrs. Palfrey that there are a number of Bills of Exchange drawn in favor of her late husband, Colonel William Palfrey, in December 1780. Knox recommends that she should take the
  necessary steps to obtain the compensation which is her due and which would aid in the care of her fatherless children.
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1789041100001'
omeka_image_id: 8966
images:
- 50867ba75e988465c8b6309d72dfe40d611866eb.jpg
- 89e78a29db43c641fcf52975cecfb33a0e3ff1b6.jpg
- 523e624f22ee17ffed338bbd60fd0e71637934a1.jpg
- 1e153f1209c226c28a92ffe09e85049a09e840c3.jpg
month: '04'
notable_locations:
- New York
- Paris
notable_persons:
- Susannah Palfrey
- Henry Knox
- Thomas Smith
- Benjamin Franklin
- Jonathan Nesbitt
- William McCarty
omeka_id: 39814
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- Susannah Palfrey
repositories:
- 'Harvard University: The Houghton Library Manuscript Department'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Bills of Exchange Drawn in Favor of Colonel Palfrey
year: '1789'
---



New York 11th April 1789
Madam,
Being this day at the Board of Treasury Mr. Osgood stated some circumstances relative to Bills of Exchange drawn in favor of your late Husband Colonel Palfrey in December 1780, and which it is highly proper for you to be informed of, in order that you may take the necessary steps to obtain that compensation which on the present asspects of the affair seems to be your due.
The whole amount of the Bills of Exchange which Colonel Palfrey received from the public as a Balance due him was 3.200 dollars.
These Bills were issued from the Office of Thomas Smith loan Officer of Pennsylvania on the 14th of December 1780 on B. Franklin Esqr at Paris - and were of the following denominations. To wit
Two of 1000 dollars each
Two of 400 dolls &
Two of 200 [undecipherable]
One of the 400 Dollar Bills were endorsed by Wm Palfrey to Jonathan Nesbitt & Co of Philadelphia and accepted by B. Franklin in Paris the 3d of Feby 1781.
One of the 200 Bills were also endorsed Wm Palfrey to the Same and accepted in Paris the 19th of 
March
March 1781.  The Alienation of these two Bills were undoubtedly proper, and Colo Palfrey probably received a full compensation for them.
But the others, to wit -- two of 1000 Dollars each, one of 400, and one of 200 all being the 3d of the Setts and amounting to 2.600 Dollars were endorsed as follows
"Pay to Cuming & McCarty or order for account of Wm Palfrey & Self as Wm McCarty and Co.   L'Orient 3 Septr 1781
(Signed) Wm McCarty
Accepted 10th Septr 1781. B. Franklin."
How Wm McCarty became possessed of the Said Bills does not appear, or whether any partnership existed between him and your Husband.
As the Said Bills were not endorced by your Husband, it is presumed that as he was going to France he might have remitted the thirds of each Sett to Wm McCarty knowing they could not be legally paid without his own Signature.
It is to be particularly observed that the Bills which your Husband actually endorced were accepted the one on the 3d of February and the other on the 19th of March 1781 whereas those presented by W. McCarty were not accepted
until

until the 10th of September following and were all the thirds of the Setts. But it is clear that the Said Bills ought not to have been paid but on the actual endorsement of William Palfrey or his legal Representative -- and it appears probably that you as Executor or Administrator will have good grounds for an action for the recovery of the amount of 2.600 dollars.
It will be a matter requiring due consideration against whom you bring your Suit. If you bring it against the United States, and recover, it is possible you may be paid in Certificates - and besides the United States are in possession of the very bills, which have been paid by them -- whether it would be proper to bring the action against the payer of the bills I cannot Say -- Wm McCarty if my information be true, has been unfortunate and is unable to pay -- if so nothing would be gained by bringing the action against him.
As the original Setts consisted of four bills of the Same tenor and date you may perhaps have one for which the public is Still liable. But these are only suggestions, of which your Lawyers will fully consider. The Bills pay are in possession of the Board of the Treasury who, I presume would, on your application previously to any such being instituted deliver authentic copies with the endorsements and acceptances.
I Sincerely hope Madam that this information 
may

may be of substantial service to you and your fatherless children.
If I can render you any further assistance, I will chearfully do it.
I am Madam
Your Most Obedient
Humble Servant
H Knox
Mrs. Palfrey
[endorsed on the side:]
Knox's letter to 
Mrs Palfrey April 11th
