---
authors:
- Samuel Barrett
collection_id: 871
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers.  [microfilm]
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:26+00:00'
day: '11'
description: Samuel Barrett solicits information regarding federal appointments from Knox.  Mentioned losing his property to misfortune, and argues that he must provide for his family.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1789051140001'
omeka_image_id: 18447
images:
- 6f75e7c0191b3f0ba4a3b2d22359512a388cd4dd.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- subsistence
notable_locations:
- Boston
- New York
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Samuel Barrett
- Secretary at War
- subaltern
- family
- Federal Government
omeka_id: 39845
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Pierpont Morgan Library
resource_type: Document
title: Federal Appointment
year: '1789'
---



BOSTON
honorableMajor General KnoxNew York
from Saml BarrettEsqr Boston24 May 1789
Samuel Barrett Boston 11, May 1789
Honored & dear Sir,
While Establishments are in Contemplation
& perhaps actually forming for (5287) carrying into Effect the
great & good Purposes of the Federal Government in the
different States there will necessarily be a Multitude
of Seekers, who in Person & by their Friends will be following
Places in the various Departments.
Every Man owes that Duty to his Family
& Dependants to make the best possible Provision for
them; it will therefore be excusable in me who has
a numerous Young Family to support & educate & have
lost all my Property by Misfortune, if I ask the Attention 
of my Friends to my unhappy Situation & ask
their Interest & Exertions to make it better.
The Offices which I sustain with incessant
Labour & the most [undecipherable] Ecconomy do not produce me
the Necessaries of Subsistence & unless I have some
Addition to my Support I shall be reduced to
such a Situation & State of Life as must degrade
me exceedingly, wound any Feelings & effect my
Friends beyond Expression.
Having Food & Raiment & having it on 
my Person to give my Children that Education,
which wont enable them by personal Exertion,
to make their Way through Life. I could be contented &
happy ; but some Consideration is due to personal &
& official Character, which I am ambitious to maintain.
[parts in between missing]
To accomblish the latter & even the former May
instant necessary Demand of so large a Family it
children & the Scantiness & total uncertainty of my
income render impracticable.
I must therefore trouble you my Friend with this
Representation, that I may justifiably ask your friendly 
Advice & Assistance in availing myself of some Appoint
ment under the Federal Government which may furnish
me with a more certain, decent & comfortable tho' it be
but a moderate Support.
You can inform me in Season what Estab
lishments will be formed & in what Way & by whom Ap
pointments will be made, that I may not for Want of
such Information & good Offices as seasonably improv
ed would accomplish my Wishes; while your early
personal Recommendation may prevent a prior Engagement.
I am
honored & dear Sir,
Your very humbl Servant
Samuel Barrett
The honorable Major General Knox
