---
author_note: Tickagiska King.
collection_id: 258
collections:
- Printed Versions
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:26+00:00'
day: '19'
description: Begins with an apology for misunderstandings and for the actions of their rash inconsiderate young men. Wish to live in peace with neighbors. Mentions Tennessee, Highwassee, Telliquo, and Ammoah.
  Makes mention of last treaty at South Carolina where they gave up to white brothers all the land they could spare; and have little left to raise women and children upon. Hope no more will be taken without
  consent. Says that "we are neither birds nor fish; we can neither fly in the air, nor live under the water; therefore we hope pity will be extended toward us. We are made of the same hand, and in same
  shape with yourselves."
doc_types:
- Modern Printed Transcription of Letter/Document
document_number: '1789051990100'
month: '05'
notable_items:
- we are neither birds nor fish
- we can neither fly in the air, nor live under the water
- therefore we hope pity will be extended toward us. We are made of the same hand, and in same shape with yourselves
- Indian affairs
- Indian relations
- land
- peace
notable_locations:
- Chota
- Tennessee
- Highwassee
- Telliquo
- Ammoah
notable_persons:
- George Washington
- John Sevier
- Tickagiska King
- women
- children
- white brothers
- Indians
note: This speech was transcribed by John Sevier
omeka_id: 39853
recipient_note: Tickagiska King.
recipients:
- Tickagiska King
resource_type: Document
title: A great talk by Warriors and Chiefs of Cherokee nation assembled at Chota
year: '1789'
---


At a Great Talk held by the Warriors and Chiefs of the Cherokee Nation Assembled in Council at the Great and Beloved town of Chota, the 19th day of May 1789 addressed to his Excellency the President of the United Sates

Great Brother

The Great being above has Directed our hearts to listen to the talks of peace, and Sorry that ever any {base} misunderstanding arose between us & our white brothers our last Troubles have been Occasioned by our rash inconsiderate young Men, who we doubt have been too Much encouraged by white Men in our towns, that pretend you have sent them Among us to do us Justice & direct Our Nation how to Manage.

There is a great many towns of us that live on Tenase, Highwassee, Telliquo & Amoah, who are near Neighbours to {us} the white people, and we Wish to live in peace with them,

We hope that Congress has not forgot the Treaty last held at Hopewell So.Carolina; We intend to abide by it. And hope Congress Will do us Justice, as we look up to them for it, and intend to hear there Good talks, and also the Talks of all them that Are Joined with them, but will not listen to any Others.

Brother at our last Treaty held in so. Carolina We Give up to our White brothers all the land we Could anyhow Spare, and have but little left, to raise our Women & Children Upon and we hope you wont let any people take any more from us Without our Consent: We are Neither Birds nor Fish; we can Neither Fly in the Air, nor live under Water, therefore We hope pity will be extended towards us: we are made by the same hand and in same Shape With yourselves.

We Send {two} some of our head men and Warriors to you with talk and to represent {our} the Case & Circumstance of our Nation; and we hope you will Settle Matters with them to all our Satisfaction, and that they may return home to Our Country with good tidings of peace, & friendship And anything done by Congress and our representatives will be held safe by us and fast by us.

We hear that Congress have got Strong powers Now and nothing can be Spoiled that you undertake to do, this we {Are inform'd} hear from our Elder brother John Sevier which makes us Glad & rejoice at the news.

We wish you to appoint Some good Men to do the business between us & our Elder Brothers. let us have a Man, that don't Speak With two Tongues, nor one that will encourage Mischief or blood to be Spilt, let their be a good Man appointed, & War Will Never happen between us. {him} Such a one we Will listen to: but Such as has been Sent among us we Shall not hear, as they have already caused our Nation to be ruined. And come almost to Nothing.

TICKAGISKA KING
