---
author_note: The Five Nations; the Hurons; Delawres; Shawanese; Ottawas; Chippewas; Powtewattimies; Twichtwegs; Cherokees; the Wabash Confederates.
authors:
- Captain Joseph Brant
collection_id: 649
collections:
- Berthrong Collection
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:26+00:00'
day: '23'
description: Speech of the United Indian Nations seeking peace with United States.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1789052340001'
omeka_image_id: 8391
images:
- e63148fe19f0f918b32a97a7390e14d395efe554.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- appear just and reasonable in the eyes of the world
- determination of all the chiefs of our confederacy now assembled
- accidents that have in our villages
- several innocent chiefs were killed when absolutely engaged in promoting peace
- good purpose
- haughtiness or menaces
- others that mark out lands
- cease crossing the Ohio
- originated in that quarter
- prevent our people from going over
- faults
- the event will be very precarious
- fresh ruptures ensue
- exculpate ourselves
- united force
- obliged to defend those rights and privileges which have been transmitted to us by our ancestors
- reduced to misfortunes
- the world will pity us when they think of the amicable proposals we now make to prevent the effusion of blood
- thoughts and firm resolves
- your answer
- Confederated Council fire
- Huron Village, near the mouth of the Detroit River
- induce you to follow this plan
- real intentions to promote peace and concord
- no cause or provocation to be otherwise
- true copy
- sincere in our wishes
- peace and tranquility established
- earnestly hoping to find the same inclination
- serious consideration
- speak
- manner proposed
- early in the spring
- pursue reasonable steps
- meet half ways for our mutual convenience
- bring in oblivion the misfortunes that have happened
- footing of friendship
- become upright and honest men
- prevent your surveyors and other people from coming upon our side
- King
- war we were engaged in
- quiet
- complied
- time of this tranquility
- deliberating the best method we could to form a lasting reconciliation
- set of people born on the same continent with ourselves
- quarrel
- course of our councils
- hit upon an expedient
- opinion
- means which may lend
- sorry to find
- before-mentioned period
- mischief has nevertheless happened
- anxious of putting our plan of accommodation into execution
- briefly inform
- means that seem most probable to us of effecting a firm and lasting peace and reconciliation
- all treaties carried on
- general voice of the whole confederacy
- most open manner
- without any restraint on either side
- landed matters
- subject of our councils
- matter of the greatest importance and of general concern to us
- indispensably necessary that any cession of our lands should be made in the most public manner and by the united voice of the Confederacy
- holding all partial treaties as void and of no effect
- brothers
- essential good has been followed by mischief and confusion
- managed every thing respecting your own way
- kindled your council fires where you thought proper without consulting us
- held separate treaties
- entirely neglected our plan of having a general conference with the different nations of the confederacy
- jreason to believe
- settled between us
- friendly manner
- our power at the treaty of Fort Stanwix
- Indians were disappointed
- included in that peace according to our expectations
- conclusion
- promoted a friendship
- enjoy that happiness that formerly subsisted between us and our elder brethren
- agreeable messages from the Thiteen United States
- years since peace was made between the King of Great Britain and you
- five Nations
- Hurons
- Delawares
- Shawanese
- Ottawas
- Chippewas
- Powtewattimies
- Twichtwegs
- Cherokees
- Wabash Confederates
- Congress of the United States of America
- United Indian Nations
- confederate Council
- mouth of the Detroit River
notable_locations:
- Detroit River
- Huron Village, near the mouth of the Detroit River
- Ohio River
- Fort Stanwix
- Thirteen United States
- Great Britain
- United States of America
- Detroit River
- territory
- frontier
- borders
- boundary
- council
notable_persons:
- Jos. Brant
- Five aNations
- Indian Nation
- Indians
- Hurons
- Shawanese
- Delwares
- Ottawas
- Chippewas
- Powtewatamies
- Wabash Confederates
- Cherokees
- Twichtwees
omeka_id: 39863
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Congress of the United States
repositories:
- 'University of Oklahoma Libraries: Western History Collections'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Detroit River
title: Speech of the United Indian Nations, at their confederate council, held near the mouth of the Detroit River between the 28th Nov. & 18th Dec. 1786.
year: '1789'
---



[undecipherable]
Speech of the United Indian Nations, at their confederate Council, held near the mouth of the Detroit-River, between the: 28th Nov: 13th Dec: 1786
(Copy)
Entt. in Book of Report & Communications Fol:1
Page 74
1017
(Copy.)
Speech of the United Indian Nations, at their confederate Council held near the mouth of the Detroit River, the 28th November & 18th Decr 1786
Present.
The five Nations, the Hurons, Delawares, Shawnese, Ottawas, Chippewas, PawtewaMimies, Twichtwees, Cherokees, and the Wabash Confederates.
To the Congress of the United States of America.
Brethren of the United States of America.
It is now more than three years since peace was made between the King of Great Britain and you, but we the Indians were disappointed finding ourselves not included in that peace accordning to our expectations for we thought that its conclusion would have promoted a friendship between the United States and Indians, and that we might enjoy that happiness that formerly subsisted between us and our elder brethre. We have received two er agreeable messages from the Thirteen United States - we also received a message from the King, whose war we were engaged in, desiring us to remain quiet, which we accordingly complied wiht. During the time of this tranquility, we were deliberating the best method we could to form a lasting reconciliation with the Thirteen United States. Pleased at the same time
we thought we were entering upon a reconciliation and friendship with a set of people born on the same continent with ourselves certain that the quarrel between us was not of our own making. In the course of our councils we imagined we hit upon an expedient that would promote a lasting peace between us.
Brothers. - We still are of the same opinion as to the means which may tend to reconcile us to each other, and we are sorry to find, altho we had the best thoughts in our minds, during the before-mentioned period; mischief has nevertheless happened between you and us. We are still anxious of putting our plan of accommodation into execution, and we shall briefly inform you of the means that seem most probable to us of effecting a firm and lasting peace and reconciliation. The first step towards which should, in our opinion, be that all treaties carried on with the United States, on our part, should be with the general voice of the whole confederacy, and carried on in the most open manner, without any restraint on either side. And especially as landed matters are often the subject of our councils with you, a matter of the greates importance and of general concern to us, in this case we hold it indispensably necessary that any cession of our lands should be made in the most public manner, and by the united voice of the Confederacy. Holding all partial treaties as void and of no effect.
Brothers - We think it is owing to you that the tranquility which since the peace between us has not lasted, and that that essential good has been followed by mischief, and confusion, having managed
every thing respecting your own way - you kindled your council fires where you thought proper without consulting us, as which you held seperate treatiese, and have entierly neglected our plan of having a general conference with the different nations of the confederacy. Had this happend we have reason to believe every thing would now have been settled between us in a most friendly manner. We did every thing in our power at the treaty of Fort Stanwix, to induce you to follow this plan, as oure real intentions were at that very time to promote peace and concord between us, and that we might look upon each other as friends having given you nno cause on provocation to be otherwise.
Brothers - Notwithstanding the mischied that has happened, we are still sincere in our wishes to have peace and tranquility established between us, earnestly hoping to find the same inclination in you. We wish therefore you would take it into serious consideration, and let us speak to you in the manner weproposed. Let us have a treaty with you early in the spring, let us pursue reasonable steps, let us meet half ways for our mutual convenience, we shall then bring in oblivion the misfortunes that have happened, and meet eachother on a footing of friendship.
Brothers - We say let us meet half way, and let us pursue such steps as become upright and honest men. We beg you that you will prevent your Surveyors, and other people from coming upon our side the Ohio River. We have told you before, we wished to pursue just steps, and we are determined they shall appear just and
reasonably, in the eyes of the world. This is the determination of all the chiefs of our confederacy now assembled here, notwithstanding the accients that have happened in our villages, even when in council, where several innocent chiefs were killed when absolutely engaged in promoting a peace with you the Thirteen United States.
Although then interrupted, the chiefs here present still wich to meet you in the spring, for the before-mentioned good purpose, when we hope to speak to each other without either haughtiness or meances.
Brothers - We again request of you inthe most earnest manners, to order your Surveyors and others that mark out lands, to cease from crossing the Ohio, until we shall have spoken to you because the mischief that has recently happened has originated in that quarter. we shall likewise prevent our people from going over until that time.
Brother - It shall not be our faults, if the plans which we have suggested to you, should not be carried into executions in that case the even will be very precarious, and if fresh ruptures ensue, we hope to be able to exulpate ourselves, and shall most assuredly with our united force, be obliged to defend those rights and privileges which have been transmitted to us by our Ancestors. And if we should be thereby reduced to misfortunes, the world will pity us when they think of the amicable proposals we now make to prevent the unnecessary effusion of blood. There are our thoughts and firm resolves, and we earnestly desire that you will
transmit to us, as soon as possible your answer, be it what it may.
Done at our Confederated Council Fire, at the Huron Village, near the mouth of the Detroit-River, December 18 th 1786
(Signed) The five Nations
Hurons
Shawanese
Delawares
Ottawaas
Chippewas
Pawtewatimies
Twichtwees
Cherokees
The Wabahs Confederates
A true Copy
(Sigend) Jos. Brant

War Office 23rd May 1789
compared with the original. Knox
