---
author_note: Robert Johnson
authors:
- Robert Johnson
collection_id: 822
collections:
- 'First Congress:  Reports and Communications Submitted to the Senate by the Secretary of War [1A-F2] (RG46)'
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:28+00:00'
day: '22'
description: Letter gives detailed account of Indian attacks and the resulting defense by U.S. troops.
doc_types:
- Document
document_number: '1789082237001'
omeka_image_id: 20358
images:
- 9d134f4874a7e5fef409db1ca4b2ef1b0c970cab.jpg
- b453c7bf0d119293613581ac280927ab87cc43b5.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- saddle
- bridle
- killed
- stealing
- horses
- party of Indians
- Indian relations
- Indian affairs
- wounded
notable_locations:
- County of Woodford
- frontier
- Kentucky
- Ohio River
- Big Miami
notable_persons:
- George Washington
- President Washington
- Lieutenant Robert Johnson
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- hostiles
- children
- Captain Buford
omeka_id: 39997
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: John Adams
recipients:
- John Adams
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: County of Woodford
title: Indian Attacks
year: '1789'
---



No. 4
District of Kentuckey - 
22. Augt. 1729
Robt. Johnson
Lt. of the county of Woodford to the President of the United States.
"About the 10th, instant two men were fired on by a party of Indians, but no damage sustained only one of the horses the men rode was killed; the indians took the Saddle & bridle, and the night following they stole eleven horses, our men pursued them, next day came up with them and retook all the horses together with said saddle & bridle, and killed two (one of which was a white  man). On Sunday the 16th six negroes were taken by a party of indians in ambuscade about three quarters of a mile from my house. they carried them about
one
107

one quarter of a mile, where they were surprised by the noise of some people riding near them, they tomahawked four, two of which died, two were left for dead which is now in a hopeful way of recovery the other two made their escape while they were murdering the rest. The day following the party was seen twice and the evening or night of the sixteenth they stole some horses from Captain Buford we pursued them as quick as possible with about forty men to the Ohio, about twenty five miles below the mouth of Big Miami, where twenty six volunteers crossed the Ohio after them, we came to a large camp of them early in the morning of the 20th about twelve miles from the Ohio, we divided our party and attacked them opposite, on each side, they fought us a short time in that position, until they got their women & children out of the way, and then give back to a thick place of high weeds & bushes, where they hid very close we immediately drove up about forty of the horses and made our retreat across the Ohio, we left three men & two wounded, The indians wounded one of our men as we returned. Thus they are going on from time to time in this country."
No. 5
