---
authors:
- Henry Jackson
collection_id: 871
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers.  [microfilm]
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:28+00:00'
day: '06'
description: Letter, mentions Lucy's illness; mentions death of Knox's son; discusses bill of Executive department; asks for federal appointment; mentions French fleet.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1789090640001'
omeka_image_id: 17596
images:
- c99e7f4db4cdbfdf519ca1f4a51ba037e67f03a7.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- bill as a voucher for the payment of the money
- anxious for some appointment under the federal government
- marshall
- honorable and active office
- French fleet has arrived
- anchor in the Lyght House channels
- wind has blown so fast from the westward
- harbour
- escorted to the treaty
- troops to accompany him
- might & dignity to the commissioners
- highly honourable to the Federal government
- opening in the Revenue
- death of some one already in office
- observe the bill for establishing the salaries in the executive department
- War Department
- committees
- importance of the office
- friends
- pray god to give he that support and comfort necessary on so distressing an occasion
- tender & delicate sensibility
- suffering must be extreme in parting with that dear little fellow
- safe to land
- unhappy at learning your dear Lucy is so unwell
notable_locations:
- New York
- Boston
- New York
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Henry Jackson
- Capt. Bernard
- Capt. Vose
- Gen. Lincoln
- Lucy [Knox]
omeka_id: 40023
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Pierpont Morgan Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Boston
title: Jackson discusses politics and appointment with Knox
year: '1789'
---



BOSTON DEPT 6
General Henry Knos
Secretary at War 
post   New York
H Jackson
6th Sepr 1789
with Voss draft for 100 dollars
Boston Sept. 6, 1789
My dear Harry
H-J
Your favor of the 30th Ultimo came safe to hands - I am made unhappy at hearing your dear Lucky is so unwell.  I pray god to give her that support and comfort necessary on so distressing and occasion.  I know her tender & delicate sensibility and I am persuaded her sufferings must be extreme in parting with that dear little fellow.  
I observe the Bill for establishing the salaries in the executive departments, that the War Department is 3000 dollars this is better than 2500 dollars as reported by the Committee.  I wish the other 500 dollars had been added, then it would have stood exceeding well and in that case it would have made you perfectly easy in your Office - but I hope if the 3,000 is passed, it will be satisfactory to you, and as the importance of the office increases, so will be the advantages of it.  The
The friends of General Lincoln are highly gratified at his arrival in New York, & the very respectable manner he is Escortedto the Treaty, every one is pleased he has Troops to accompany him, as it adds weight & dignity to the Commissioners and is highly honourable to the Federal government.  
You say, you know not whether there will be an opening in the Reserves - and at the same time observe that my last object would be in that line.  It is true, I had rather be in that department than in any other, but if there is no prospect for me, but by the Death of some one already in office, my hopes must be small, very small indeed, - and in that case I should wish to change my ground.
Harry, you know me as well, perhaps, better than I do myself - therefore I shall only observe to you, that I am anxious for some appointment under the Federal Government, that you may think
think me equal too - that I would fill with dignity & propriety & which I may accept with honour to myself - as to Marshall.  I am not sanguine but I am told it will be an honourable action  and a lucrative office - but its being only for four years is an objection.  
The French Fleet is arrived they are at anchor in the Lyght House channels, the wind has blown so fast from the westward for several days past that they have not been able to come into the harbour - none of the officers has as yet been on shore, but we expect them up tomorrow or next day - 
I enclose you Capt. Vose's Bill as a voucher for the payment of the money I drew a Bill on you for that sum which went on last week probably has been presented to you.  
Capt. Bernard is here in the N York packet when he returns shall send you the two Quintet of Fish that I have had for some time for you, it is of the best quality.  
God bless you - your most affectionate 
H Jackson
H Knox
