---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 515
collections:
- King's Mountain Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:29+00:00'
day: '10'
description: Discusses proposed plan of raising a regiment of 560 privates and non-commissioned officers at Holstein Valley, for 3 year's service against Indians.  Lists several questions, most concerning
  relations with the Cherokee and Creek Indians, and the disposal of each to war or alliance with the U.S.  Also asks about geography and river routes in Tennessee region, commenting on the "uncertainty
  of the maps."
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1789121000001'
omeka_image_id: 8109
images:
- 5b2742cad59ce3653dd1e0ded74710fa75d9935e.jpg
- 1fcd74e42f54674ac4b3b8d789e7f0d44a020f74.jpg
- 07df72ef93dfed003410b582d5e9241ead9cf19e.jpg
- 9204279842de7b1763a1c14df93b1a65d1ef4b75.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- geography
- maps
- Indian relations
- alliance
- war
- river routes
- raising troops
notable_locations:
- Georgia
- Holstein Valley
- War Office
- Tennessee
notable_persons:
- Arthur Campbell
- Henry Knox
- regiment
- privates
- non commissioned officers
- Indians
- Cherokee
- Creek
omeka_id: 40181
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Arthur Campbell
repositories:
- 'State Historical Society of Wisconsin: Archives Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Request for Intelligence from the Secretary at War, Concerning Indians & Indian-Fighting in Tennessee
year: '1789'
---



War Office of the United States
December 10th 1789
Sir,
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favors of the 25th of October and the 14th of November last, both of which have been transmitted to the President of the United States.  
The public sir are obliged by your attention to the subject of your communications, and I request that you would be so good as to continue your information from time to time. 
You mention that in [case?] the same should be required a regiment of choice men could be raised in Holstein Valley on short notice.  Will you please to inform me in what time a regiment 
[Left Margin]  H Knox, Sec War, Dec. 1789.  to Col. Ar Campbell Inquiring about Indians &c
regiment of 560 non commissioned officers and privates could be raised at that place after the appointment of the officers had been made?  Whether the said regiment could be raised on the continental establishment of pay, clothing and rations agreably to the schedule herein annexed? and to serve during three years against the Indians unless sooner discharged?  
I shall also be obliged by precise answers to the follow queries: 
1st.  If McGillivray has sent messages to the Creeks or other nations to find out the exact purport thereof and the answers of the Cherokees thereto.  
2dly: If a War should ensue with the Creeks what side would the Cherokees take as a nation would they join them
them against the United States?  Or, whether any, or what part of the Cherokees would join the Arms of the United States?
3dly What is the distance of the nearest settlements of Holstein to the the Cherokee towns particularly Chota?  Have the Cherokees returned to that town?  
4thly What kind of navigation is it for boats, and the depth and rapidity of the water from Holstein and Chota down the Tennassee to the Muscle Shoals and what is the distance?  
5thly  What is the distance from the Holstein settlements to Miro and Nashville settlements on the Cumberland river?  
6th
6thly The distance from Nashville and Miro settlements to the Muscle Shoals 
7thly What nation of Indians are they who commit depredations on the said settlements?  What are the number of settlers at Nashville and Miro, and the Cumberland river generally?  
8thly What is the distance from Lexington in Kentucky to the nearest upper Creek towns?  
The uncertainty of the maps render the ascertainment of these points necessary.  If you will please to conduct these inquiries privately and let me know the result as soon as possible, and not to suffer the purport of this letter to be known you will further oblige
Sir, Your most Obedt H Knox 
Colo Arthur Campbell, Washington Virginia} 
{Right Margin] Secretary Knox, Distances to Indian Towns?
