---
authors:
- Jonathan Williams
collection_id: 871
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers.  [microfilm]
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:32+00:00'
day: '04'
description: Jonathan William writes Henry Knox from London to discuss the French Revolution. William believes the the French Revolution is a just war for freedom which continues the American tradition
  of liberty, linking events in France to the American Revolution. He also hopes that the revolution may spread to the Spanish and Portuguese colonies so that they too could have democratic governments.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1790010440001'
omeka_image_id: 17677
images:
- 2ca5da8909fbde1b2d65f2445fd6972cc13005f3.jpg
- ba37088c7cf9aa7427af929ed0382fcf8af57110.jpg
- f24058a67f5efee812dc8d655aacd533308c6927.jpg
- e3c5860b4e0616c437c4dcc86ead050f1af4bb62.jpg
month: '01'
notable_locations:
- New York
- London
- France
- America
- Spanish colonies
- Portuguese colonies
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Jonathan Williams
- Lucy Knox
- King Louis XVI
omeka_id: 40251
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Pierpont Morgan Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: London
title: Williams writes Knox from London
year: '1790'
---



Post paid
The Honorable
General Knox
Secretary of State for
the War Department
New York

London Jany 4 1790
Jno W
Jno Williams
London Jany 4 1790
Dear General
I know it will give you pleasure to hear that I am again restored to my Family, and that I propose to settle with it in America as near to the Seat of Government as I possibly can.
The inclosed Letter to our Friend Shaw may perhaps give him usefull tho' not any agreeble intelligence. I send it open to you in order that if he should left its contents may be communicated where necessary.
The Revolution in France Supports itself to admiration. What a few years since would have been called the [undecipherable] Fables of political Madness is now supported by Stubborn Fact. France is perhaps
perhaps the nearest to a democracy of any Government in the Universe, preserving only a monarch at the head of it 'pro forma', with no more to do with its composition than the diamond Button has with his majistys hat.
There is but one Voice in the Kingdom, and even Monsieur the Kings Brother he thought it his Duty to come into the national assembly
as a private Citizen and justify himself against some suspicions relative to the sincerity of his attachment to the great Cause of Freedom. -- This flame which had its focus in America, has spread its influence through France to the Low Countries and I am inclined to look upon that Country as already emancipated from [undecipherable] who will not be able to do more than his absolute fever of Arms will do, which notwithstanding its
greatness will be found inadequate to the unanimous efforts of a resolute & decided People.
I beg you will present my best respects with the Compliments of the Season to your good Lady & believe me to be with the most affection & respectfull regards
Dear General 
Your obliged [illegible]
J Williams
London Jan. 4 1790
Cant we contrive in America to get this flame of equal Liberty to blaze over the Spanish & Portugese Colonies our namesakes? War is detestable when Ambition alone is the motive, but the emancipation of the human race is worth almost any price.
Genl Knox
