---
authors:
- Alexander Hamilton
collection_id: 516
collections:
- Robert Goodloe Harper
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:34+00:00'
day: '30'
description: Hamilton specifies the amounts and conditions under which pensions to invalids should be paiid.
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1790013090001'
omeka_image_id: 10058
images:
- caedba6cf42706d58069a4140339cccb9feda298.jpg
month: '01'
notable_items:
- payment of pensions to invalids
- business in your state [Massachusetts]
- drafts from the Treasury
- remittances
- allowance for your trouble
- half-year's pension
notable_locations:
- Boston
- Treasury Department
notable_persons:
- Benjamin Lincoln
- Alexander Hamilton
- President
- each invalid
- Secretary for the Department of War [Knox]
omeka_id: 40330
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Benjamin Lincoln
repositories:
- 'South Caroliniana Collection: University of South Carolina'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Treasury Department
title: Payment of Pensions to Invalids
year: '1790'
---



From Secretary Hamilton
Payment of Invalids
Feby 6, 1790
Treasury Department 30th. Jany 1790
Sir
By an act of the last session, provision is made for the payment of pensions to Invalids for the Space of one year, commencing from the fourth of march last, under such regulations as the President should prescribe.
The President having signified to me his pleasure, that the business in your State may be committed to your management; it remains for me to direct the necessary provision.
I am therefore to inform you that one half year's pension to each Invalid, is to be paid on the fifth day of March next; which, by the estimate respecting your State will require the Sum of six thousand Dollars. This Sum you will retain in your hands for the purpose.  I will take care that drafts from the Treasury shall be
be regulated in conformity to this idea; (nevertheless you will understand that such as may be drawn, are by all means to be paid) And you will forbear Remittances, so as to be in a condition to answer the demand.
The allowance for your trouble, as established by the President, is Two [ dashed lines] per Cent on the amount of what you pay.
Another half year's pension iwll be to be paid on the fifth day of June next; the payment of which is also to be committed to you, on the like terms.
The Secretary for the Department of War, will write to you concerning the evidences and precautions upon and under which your payments are to be made.
I doubt not you will cheerfully execute this service, though not in the line of your Office. The emolu-
ment
-ment it will bring to you, cannot be an unwelcome auxiliary, and the execution of the duty by any other person would not, under the circumstances, be equally convenient.
I am, Sir
Your obedt Servt. 
Alexander Hamilton
Secy of the Treasy
Benjamin Lincoln Esq.
Collector for the Port of 
Boston & 
Massachusetts
