---
authors:
- Joseph Howell
collection_id: 779
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:35+00:00'
day: '02'
description: Writes the War Secretary that he has examined the muster rolls of the late Virginia Line, along with the accounts of the state of Virginia for depreciation granted to the troops. Proceeds to
  list various officers and soldiers of interest.
doc_types:
- Contemporary Copy of Letter Signed
document_number: '1790030221101'
omeka_image_id: 22354
images:
- 87e97017384dfcd692f23878a99aaf892da19865.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- muster rolls
- accounts
- settlement
- voucher
- petition
- Revolutionary War
- deserted
- levy
- claim
- Act of Limitation
notable_locations:
- Office of Army Accounts
- New York
- Fort Pitt
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Joseph Howell
- Virginia line
- Captain William Grimes
- Lieutenant Thomas Wishart
- Lieutenant Andrew McCrary
- William Caster
- William Carter
- Colonel Baylor's Regiment of Dragoons
- William Flood
- Frederick Flood
- Thomas Pope
- Anderson Bryant
- John Bridges
- Samuel Hasier
- Captain Gregory's Company
- Colonel Porterfield
- Paul Shry
- Thomas Welsh
- Isham Medlock
- Johnson Crews
- David Owen
- David Woods
- William Jones
- John Lannum
- John McLochlin
- John McLachlin
- Captain Spiller's Company
- Bernard Stovall
- Colonel Davis
omeka_id: 40407
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Office of Army Accounts, New York
title: Muster Rolls of Late Virginia Line
year: '1790'
---



Office of Army Accounts
New York 2nd March 1790
Sir,
In pursuance of your directions of the 25th Ulto I have examined the Muster Rolls of the late Virginia Line in my possession and also the accounts of the State of Virginia for depreciation granted to their Troops - from which I have collection the following evidence viz
That




 Captain William Grimes
 of the 15 Reg died on the 1 August 1777. It has not been settled with either by the State of or the US.


 Lieut Thomas Wishout
 of ditto was furlouged in March 78, and omitted in the Muster after April following , has had no settlement -


 Lieut Andrew McCrary
 of the 13th Reg mustered in Augt 1777 stationed at Fort Pitt omitted October following and does not appear afterwards - has had no settlement


 William Caster
 of Baylor Dragoons - settled with by the State for depreciation Voucher No 2478 -


 William Flood
 executor to the Estate of Fredk Flood has not been settled with by the State or US appear a Levy of the estate


 Thomas Pope
 15th Reg inlisted 29 Jany 79 has not been settled with by the State or US, by his petition it appears he was discharged after 3 years service which was prior to the 10 April 80 not entitled to depreciation -
2




 Anderson Bryant
 Colo Baylors Reg L Dragoons continued to the end of the War, has not been settled with by the State or US


 John Bridges
 - 3d Reg L D has been settled with by the State - P vo No 1549 no settlement has taken place with the US.


 Samuel Glasier
 Capt Gregory Co 15 Reg is mustered Deserted but it appears that he was discharged by Colo Porterfield on the 22d June 1779 not entitled to depreciation -


 Paul Shry
 Colo Baylors Reg. L. Dragoons, mustered in Septemr 1782, as having three days to serve he appears to have been a Levy for 18 Months - no settlement has taken place with him by the State or US -


 Thomas Welsh
 7th Regt appears first mustered in the Regt in Decr 1778 for the War and mentioned on the Musters to March 1779 has had no settlemt from the State or US


 Joham Medlock
 7 Regt first mustered to serve 3 years, afterwards to serve to 10 April 78 does not appear in the Muster Roll from Dec. 77 to May 78 or afterwards - not settled with by the State or US.


 Johnson Crews
 5 Regt has had a partial settlement with the State Vo No 2135 from the U States


 David Owen
 a draft or Levy of the State not entitled to any settlement fro the US, neither does it appear that the State has settled with him


29360
3




 David Woods
 a draft or Levy of the State - has been settled by the State p Vo 8501 not entitled to any settlement with the US.


 William Jones
 a draft or Levy of the State there are a number of this name who have been settled with by the State but whether this Man is among the number cannot be ascertained - see Vo. No 4600-4612-4632-4665-4677-4684&85-4744-& 4861 - not entitled to any settlement with the US.


 John Lannum
 not to be found on the Musters in my possession - no settlement has taken place with him by the US. or State - he appears to be an 18 Mos. Man


 John McLochlin
 Capt Spiller Co. 2d State Rg. is mustered as enlisted for 3 years - no settlement has taken place with him by the US. or State


 Bernard Stovall
 or draft or Levy of the State, has not been settled by the State & not entitled to any from the U States -


The Muster Rolls of the Virginia line are [undecipherable] imperfect and it is with much difficulty that a soldier can be traced to Decemr 1779. from that a Soldier cannot be traced further than Decemr 1779 from which [undecipherable] this period to the end of the war there are no regular muster Rolls, this circumstance prevents me from being as particular as my wishes would lead me.  Anderson Bryant & Thomas Welsh are 
29360
4
the only persons who appear to have any claim on the United States but which is foreclosed by the Act of Congress or the 2d Novemr 1785 - the officers having quitted left the service previous to the 10 April 80 their claims are not setting and the the above mentioned Oct inadmissible on the part of the United States the rest are claims [undecipherable] that generally come under the notice of the State and would have been admitted if presented previous to the Act of limitation passed by the State of Virginia which I am informed by Colonel Davis has taken place some time since 
I have the Honor to be 
Sir 
your obed serv 
Jos Howell II
The Honble 
The Secy at War 
Copy 
The Honle, 
The Secy at War
March 2 1780
Entd
