---
author_note: Josiah Harmar
authors:
- Josiah Harmar
collection_id: 973
collections:
- Alfred T. Goodman Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:35+00:00'
day: '24'
description: Reports that the Indians continue to murder and plunder, including entire settlements. Requests troops be raised to suppress Indians. Announces personnel changes.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1790032440001'
omeka_image_id: 19131
images:
- af896a9702c501fe546705edc2c18fc62bc6a3c8.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- murder
- plunder
- Indian affairs
- Boats
- Report
- Attack
- Property
- Monthly Returns
notable_locations:
- Fort Washington
- Ohio River
- Kenton Station
- Limestone
- Seiole River
- Ohio
- Kentucky
- settlements
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Josiah Harmar
- Indians
- Buchner Thurston
- Virginia Legislature
- Shawnees
- Ensign Francis Luce
- Cadet John Morgan
- Mr. Britt
- Mssrs. Turnbull, Marmie, & Co.
- Cadet
- Private
- Sentinel
- Major Doughty
- Lieutenant Armstrong
note: Cited in Knox to Washington, 05/27/1790, Cited in Knox to Harmer, 06/07/1790.
omeka_id: 40485
recipient_note: Henry Knox
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Western Reserve Historical Society History Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Fort Washington
title: Reports Indian Attacks, Personnel Changes
year: '1790'
---



Fort Washington March 24,1790
Sir:
I had the honor to address you last on the 20th ultimo, a duplicate whereof is now inclosed.
The Indians still continue to murder and plunder the inhabitants; especially the boats going up and down the Ohio river.About the middle of this month they broke up Kenton Station, a small settlement fifteen miles above [?Limestone?],killing and capturing the whole of the people,supposed to be twelve in number. Buchner Truston, Esq., has justarrived here, who informs me of a Capital stroke of plunder which they made from the boats, one of which he was on board, a small distance above the Scioto river. This gentleman is a member of the Virginia Legislature, and has given me the inclosed Written report of the attack, by which you will please to observe that the property captured by the Savages was estimated at [pound symbol]4000. He supposes them to be Shawanees. No calculation will answer but raising a sufficient force to effectually chastise the whole of those nations who are known to be hostile.
Ensign Francis [?]has given me his resignation, and I now inclose his commission, which I hope you will be pleased to accept. I have allowed him to be run upon the rolls until the first of May, next, as he is considerable embarrassed in his circumstances. Permit me to recommend cadet John Morgan to fill the vacancy occasioned by the resignation of Mr.[?Luce/], or the first vacancy which may happen in the future. Mr Britt was a former Partner of Messrs. Turnbull & Co.; has served as a cadet in the different grades, from a private sentinel, to a non-commissioned officer. He has also been of great service to me in many other instances, and is, in my opinion,deservedly, entitled to preferment.
I have received no intelligence, as yet, of Major Doughty, have detached Lieutenant Armstrong to undertake the business recommended in your letters. No written orders have been given him upon that subject. Be pleased to receive the inclosed monthly returns of the regiment, dated the 1st of February and the 1st of March.
I have the honor to be
Jo
