---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 426
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:36+00:00'
day: '30'
description: Knox issues his orders regarding the embarkation, supply, and pay of three companies who are to board  two vessels whose destination is to be revealed once they arrive at Philadelphia.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1790033000001'
omeka_image_id: 8084
images:
- 3121ba830becb37951f58fbbc615a8138f168f52.jpg
- ce370f2427b5e68547144f768029d853a4aae64f.jpg
- b4bc8eebf274e62755e6115db03f34b956a657b3.jpg
- 304ab9fb6dcf9a030ebab1f018902b35c3b6f055.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- Brigantine "States General," Richard Law, Jr., Master
- Sloop "Rambler," Jacob Rogers, Master
- ordnance stores
- quartermaster' stores
- three month's provisions and water
- one gallon per man
- vessels
- embarkation of the troops
- sea stores
- one month's pay
- desertion
notable_locations:
- War Office
- North River
- West Point
notable_persons:
- Henry Burbeck
- Henry Knox
- Captain Savage
- Captain Smith
- Captain Price
- Officers' guard
- sentries
omeka_id: 40501
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Burbeck
repositories:
- 'United States Military Academy: Library, Special Collections'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Embarkation Orders for Captain Burbeck
year: '1790'
---



Instructions from G. Knox
30 March 1790
War Office March 30th 1790
Sir, 
You will proceed with the Brigantine States General, Richard Law Junr, Master and the Sloop Rambler Jacob Rogers Master to West Point - Immediately after your arrival you will order Captain Savage and Captain Smith to embark their companies on board the Brigantine together with the ordnance, ordnance stores, and quarter masters stores which have been directed by me — You will also immediately embark your own company on board the Sloop.  
I have directed three months provisions, and water for thirty days, estimating one gallon pr man to be shipped on board of said vessels.  
As soon as you shall have completed the embarkation of the troops and
and stores, you will direct the said vessels to return to this City — and to come to anchor in the North river nearly opposite this office — On your arrival here you will be allowed one day to provide necessaries and sea stores — I shall direct seven days fresh provisions shipped for the troops.  
I have directed the Paymaster to pay you the amount of one month's pay for the said three companies, and also the same amount for the detachment.  
You will deliver the amount of the other companies to the commanding offices respectively, and to Captain Price for the detachment which is to remain at West Point.
You and the commanding officers will consult on the point whether it will be the best method to deliver the whole of the said pay at once to the troops, or whether it
it shall be delivered out at different periods - whatever you shall determine upon this subject will be satisfactory to me.  
You will direct that on board each vessel an officers guard be mounted daily, and proper centries placed — No man to leave his vessel on the penalties of desertion without written permission from the Commanding Officer.  
On your return to this place each Captain will receive from me ample instructions relative to his destination.  
I am Sir
Your Most Obedient Servant
H Knox 
Capt Henry Burbeck
