---
author_note: William McDowell
authors:
- William McDowell
collection_id: 822
collections:
- 'First Congress:  Reports and Communications Submitted to the Senate by the Secretary of War [1A-F2] (RG46)'
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:36+00:00'
day: '04'
description: Intelligence on the movement of Indians on the North Western frontier.
doc_types:
- Document
document_number: '1790040437001'
omeka_image_id: 20525
images:
- da779c58aa780c0e9bf1c25bf6f7c1ccd2379729.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- movement of Indians
- Indian affairs
- Indian relations
- movement of Indians
- intellignence
notable_locations:
- Ohio River
- river
- frontier
- settlement
- post
- Northwestern frontier
notable_persons:
- John Brown
- William McDowell
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- hostiles
- savages
- prisoners
- settlers
omeka_id: 40516
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: John Brown
recipients:
- John Brown
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Indians on Ohio River
year: '1790'
---



No. 14
W. McDowell
to hon.
John Brown
4th April 1790
Although I wrote you a few days ago, I feel a propensity to hand you every intelligence in my power.  The indians have again made a capital stake on the Ohio; they, to the number of about fifty are incamped near the mouth of the Scioto, and have by means of a white prisoner who they have with them taken
thereabouts and a [undecipherable/canoe of sort], the [undecipherable] contained six men, who were going up the river from Limestone, one of the boats belonged to Mr. John May, the six men together with Mr. May and the whole crew, were put to instant death by the Savages.  The other two boats, one of them belonged to families, the other was the property of Colonel Edwards of Bourbon and Mr. Thomas Marshall and others who the day after May was taken, were at the same place attacked by the Savages; they in the first instance attempted to induce the boats to come to them, by means of the prisoner who was the only person exposed to view, and who affected the utmost distress and anxiety in order that he might be received on board and brought to Limestone, but finding their stratagem would answer no purpose, they immediately exposed themselves and began to fire on the boats, but without effect; the devils then, to the number of about thirty, jumped into May's boat and gave chase by which means being better supplied with oars, they would soon have
have overtaken Marshall and the family boat, if it had not been for colonel George Thompson, who was owner to a third boat in the same company; he threw out all the [?horses] he had in his boat, and received Colonel Edwards's crew, and the families all into his boat together with their oars, by which means the whole of the people escaped after sustaining a chase of about fifteen miles.  The loss of property in the two boats, was seventeen [?horses], about fifteen hundred pounds worth of dry goods and a considerable quantity of household furniture.  It is not known what May had on board, as no person was left alive.
I have also heard to day that the indians have taken a boat on Salt river which was loaded with salt, and killed a John Prior, and two others who belonged to the boats crew.
These are the most material outrages that I now recollect.  The consequences are truly alarming, no reparations is yet made, neither can these be by us, who are not authorized to assess the loss.
