---
authors:
- Sergeant Todd
collection_id: 880
collections:
- 'First Congress:  Reports and Communications Submitted to the House of Representatives by the Secretary of War [1A-D2] (RG 233) {reference microfilm}'
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:36+00:00'
day: '07'
description: Reaffirmed need to dislodge and disband Indians that have taken prisoners and captured property from boats on the Ohio River.
doc_types:
- Document Signed
document_number: '1790040790101'
omeka_image_id: 17907
images:
- 092563b9dd71711388ea489a0c83101c5c53e713.jpg
- da80fafb2979a60b97181b71247aac33636720ef.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- boats
- killed
- property
- assistance
- emigration
- hostilities
notable_locations:
- Fayette
- Western County
- frontier
- Ohio River
- river
- territory
- Scioto
- Kentucky
- Limestone
notable_persons:
- Josiah Harmar
- Sergeant Todd
- Indians
- savages
- Indian Nation
- Colonel Paterson
- Western Government
- General St Clair
- President of the United States
omeka_id: 40532
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Josiah Harmar
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Fayette
title: Indian Attacks on Ohio
year: '1790'
---



Fayette
7th April 1790
Searg Todd
to 
Genl Hammar
Within a few days past a party of Indians who have taken post on the Ohio near the mouth of the Scioto have captured four boats, killed and taken several people and much property for the particulars, I refer you to Col. Paterson who I expect will hand you this. From circumstances we may conclude this practice will be continued unless they are dislodged. The unhappy consequences which will result are too obvious to every discerning man, and too distressing to believe. A party of men from the Counties north of Kentucky river are preparing to remove these troublesome fellows from their Stations
Stations, they will rendezvous at Lexington on Thursday the 15th instant - at Limestone on the Saturday following. The inhabitants of this District flatter themselves they will meet with every encouragement and protection from officers of the Western Government in every plan that will tend to secure their persons & property, and to protect in the enjoyment of those rights for which we have so often resqued our persons and and captured property - I flatter myself that in the present instance we shall not only meet the approbation of His Excellency Genl. St. Clair, but with such instructions and assistance from you as you may judge best,calculated for the execution of the intended design, that a peaceable emigration may be preserved to the Western Country.

I flatter myself that an account of the hostilities that are committed in the Western Country will by the earliest opportunity to be transmitted to the President of the United States.
