---
authors:
- Steele
collection_id: 937
collections:
- '#689 John Steele Papers.'
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:38+00:00'
day: '22'
description: Refers to previous resolutions of the "old Congress" on Indian affairs and direction of Indian Commissioners and funds and the difficulties they faced seeking power between federal, state,
  and territory.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter
document_number: '1790052240201'
omeka_image_id: 11046
images:
- adf0c405b70f42276e0e7765a6c3c3ef97dde824.jpg
- 358aef245254d0da524c5f53be9849d5119d935c.jpg
- e0534779aac8e38479f41e18b2ef7f0356df86d8.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- resolutions
- treaty
- paper currency
- appropriated
- purchase of goods
- supplies
- expenses
- invoices
- woolen
- ruined
notable_locations:
- Southern States
- North Carolina
- War-ford
- French Broad River
- Swannanna
- Swannanoa
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Steele
- John Steele
- Congress
- Indians
- commissioners
- Creeks
- Cherokees
- storekeepers
- William Davidson
- General Winn
- General Rickers
omeka_id: 40689
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '3'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill: Wilson Library'
resource_type: Document
title: Treaty Between Southern States and Indians, Goods Purchased by Commissioners
year: '1790'
---



Copy of a letter to Genl. Knox May 22. 1790
Indian Affairs
[May 22, 1790]
Sir,
In pursuance of finding resolutions of the old Congress relative to indian affairs the three southern states. [strikethrough] on to uppermost Comm.dr and advance a sum not exceeding ten thousand dollars, for the purpose of treating with the [?] and Cherokes. No Carolinas appointed me and [?] $1,333, br 8 paper currency to be appropriated under the directions of the Commdr jointly. (L)1048 of this money was applied by order of the Comm.dr to the purchase of goods under my direction for the Cherokes Treaty, and for this sum was applied to defray certain expenses on the transporting those goods to the Manifest on French Grand River, where we had notified previously the indians to attend. They did not punctually attend on the 25th May 1789 at the time appointed by the Comm.dr were likewise scrupulous in holding a treaty within the limits of a state not then in Union, in short many difficulties intervened, but finally it was resolved, after having examined the invoices and Goods purchased that the store keepers should illegible remove them illegible except so much as would be necessary to defray certain ex-penses, to the house of William Davidson, Esq., on Iwannanna, there to be stored on
be half of the United States, untill further Orders shou'd be had thereon.
Gov. Winn the Supt. was at this time not in Office, but Gov. Rickins, the other Comm. I presume reported these transactions to the [?] or yourself.
I think it however my duty to remind you that those goods are chiefly woolin, that they have already been one summer, and if not disposed of shortly, must be totally and inevitably ruined. I should return to [?] and I will personally assist in making any illegible arrangements on his behalf which you may think proper to direct. 
I am Sir,
With great esteem, 
Your Mot Obdt
To Govt Knox
May 22d 1790
