---
author_note: Henry Knox
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 880
collections:
- 'First Congress:  Reports and Communications Submitted to the House of Representatives by the Secretary of War [1A-D2] (RG 233) {reference microfilm}'
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:39+00:00'
day: '07'
description: Detailed account of Indian attacks and continental troops defense against raiding and murdering parties of banditti on the frontier along Ohio River.  No other solution but to "extirpate those
  banditti utterly".  By orders of the President and the governor of the Western Territory, Harmar is to solve Indian problem without violating any Indian treaties already in effect.  Volunteers from Kentucky
  counties will rendez-vous at Fort Washington.  Militia and Continental troops to be mounted on horseback.  Advises precaution on frontier, neutral tribes not to be harmed.
doc_types:
- Copy of document
document_number: '1790060711101'
omeka_image_id: 20058
images:
- 95f6d44a130fc7e33b99cacc6cde982c60fe9119.jpg
- 1907d8c982cdf874dbaacd160a2c812800b57fbc.jpg
- e15a06af13dee4b12b682a85f39b41c7df44afc0.jpg
- 01f0bf0752d1efafb52588a01006badf146cc6f3.jpg
- 47c14033aa4d49ea51a99dee12e66b9964a104fc.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- report
- horses
- rations
- pay
- subsistence
- abstracts
- Hutchin's map
- map
notable_locations:
- War Office
- Ohio river
- frontier
- territory
- Lexington
- Kentucky
- Wabash
- county
- Fort Washington
- Miami
- Post Vincennes
notable_persons:
- Josiah Harmar
- Henry Knox
- banditti
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- savages
- hostiles
- troops
- tribes
- public
- Judge Lymmes
- Scott
- volunteer
- Sciota
- Shawnee
- President
- governor
- militia
- cavalry
- Doughty
- Ferguson
- Hutchin
note: Cited in Knox to Harmar, 07/20/1790 and 08/24/1790.
omeka_id: 40735
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: Josiah Harmar
recipients:
- Josiah Harmar
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Regarding use of force in response to depredations of Indians
year: '1790'
---



7 June 1790
Sec[y, superscript] of War
to 
Gen[l superscript]Hammar
The information contained in your Letter of the 24 of March last, relative to the depredations of the Indians is corroborated by several other Letters, with considerable additions. The reports of these several events have excited much disquietude in the public mind generally, and more particularly in all men whose views or interests are westward.
A Letter from Judge Lymmes dated at Lexington the 30 of April last maintains that you, with some continental troops, and General Scott with some volunteers from Kentucky had made an expedition up the Ohio against the Indians, at or near the Sciota, who had arranged the Boats in defending the Ohio, but without any considerable effect, having killed only four Indians.
The recent hostilities, according to the information, seems to have been committed by the remnants of Shawnese and banditti from several tribes associated with them. Although the said Shawnese and banditti aggregately may not amount at the excess to two hundred fighting men, yet they seem sufficient to alarm the whole frontier lying along the Ohio, and in a considerable degree injur the reputation of the Government.
To extend a defensive and efficient protection to so extensive a frontier, against solitary, or small parties of enterprizing savages, seems altogether impossible. No other remedy remains but to exterpate utterly, if possible, the said banditti.
The President of the United States, therefore directs that you and the Governor of the western territory consult together, upon the most practicable mode of effecting this object, in such manner as not to interfere with any treaties he may be about favoring with any of the regular tribes of Indians on the wabash.
At this distance, and under the information received, it would seem that an expedition of the nature herein described, might if conducted with great address and rapidity be attended with the desired effect.
The troops to be employed on this occasion, to be composed of one hundred continental, and three hundred militia, semi-commissioned officers and privates, all picked men and properly officered.
The militia to be drawn from the nearest Counties of Kentucky-to rendezvous at Fort Washington on the mouth of the great miami, or such other place as you may judge more proper-to be engaged for thirty days from their arrival at the rendezvous.
The continental troops and militia to be mounted on horseback, and if in the judgment of the Governor and yourself that mode of transportation would most probably insure success, and troops could be obtained in a reasonable distance.
The militia to be on continued pay, according to the establishment, passed the 30th April last; and rations from the time of their arrival at the place of rendezvous.
A continenal officer to muster and inspect the militia on their arrival, and none to be inserted in the pay abstracts, which must be certified by you unless so mustered. The militia to find their own arms and [armatrements], but to be furnished by the public, with ammunitions if necessary.
The militia officers, non-commissioned officers and privates to be allowed for the time and
and risque of their horses and horse armatrements, such a sum per day as the Governor and you shall certify that this nature of the service required; provided however such sum shall not exceed half a dollar per day.
The horses to be hired for continental troops to be on the same terms or less, in proportion to the risque of the horses, which perhaps ought to be on account of the United States, according to the value of the troopes, which in that case ought to be appraized.
It is presumed that each horse besides the rider ought to carry thirty days bread and pork or bacon, and about a bushel of corn, or one quart per day, as fodder for the horses.
The Shawanese and banditti associated with them, are said to reside on the eastern branches of the wabash river towards its head. I have learned from Major Doughty and Captain Ferguson that the wabash has a more easterly course, than is laid down in Hutchins Map. - If this be so, the distance from the mouth of the great miami over cannot greatly exceed the distance from the rapids over to post Ft Vincennes-but suppose the distance should be one hundred and thirty or forty miles, it could be marched on horseback, in four days at farthest.
It would be unnecessary to enter into any further details. To the judgement of the Governor and you, the expedition may justly be confided - efficacy and the peace of the frontiers are the great objects, with these are to be blended due [among].- But all future depredations of the Indians from the southwest of the Ohio in considerable numbers, must if possible be prevented-and for this purpose the orders now given, or even an extension of them, one or two hunjdred men must be considered as a standing order, until the object of extirpating the murderous banditti before mentioned be effected.
It is however strongly to be observed, that the highest precautions must be taken in all incursions into the indian country that the friendly or even neutral tribes be uninjured - but that the strongest assurances be given to such tribes of the pacific and just dispositions of the United States, and at the same time of their firm intentions of inflicting severe punishment upon all those of a contrary nature.
Although these orders are to be considered as addressed conjointly to the Governor and yourself, yet in case of his absence and a conviction in your own mind, that an expedition of the beforementioned description would not interfere or impede his negotiations, you are to undertake it as if he were present.
