---
authors:
- John Doughty
collection_id: 422
collections:
- Misc Collection
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:39+00:00'
day: '29'
description: Instructions from Major Doughty to Ensign Melchor - the officer to be ordered by General Harmar to meet the Chickasaws at the mouth of the Tennessee. Directions to deliver a rifle and pass
  on specific messages to the Chickasaw.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1790062990001'
omeka_image_id: 10631
images:
- 5aed58cdf458ca5f4a691b4355517e7e84dae507.jpg
- 66267dc9e98835242c7572e1407584df84ff8d0a.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- powder
- lead
- blankets
- rifle
- payment
- canoe
- report
notable_locations:
- Tennessee River
notable_persons:
- John Doughty
- Choctaws
- Chickasaws
- Melchor
- General Harmar
- Indians
- chief
- Piamota
- Cherokee
- Piomingo
- Opiomingo
- Olaitamatie
note: Partially illegible
omeka_id: 40775
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '2'
recipients:
- Ensign Melchor
repositories:
- Massachusetts Historical Society
resource_type: Document
title: Meeting the Chickasaws at the Mouth of the Tennessee
year: '1790'
---



Instructions to Ensign Melchor or his Officer who shall be ordered by Genl Harmar to meet the Chickasaws at the Mouth of the Tennessee.  
The Chickasaws have been directed to be at the Mouth of the Tennessee on the 1 of July, so much time is already elapsed, that the greatest exertions must be made to meet them as soon as possible.  
I have promised a rifle to Olaitamatie nephew of Piomota, give him the new rifle - one of the old rifles is promised to an Express who went with my message to the Cherokee Nation - if he comes & demands it, or anyone for him give him one of the old ones.  The other two old rifles  I wish to be given to the [illegible] Chickasaws who came up with me & who you will find at the fall, they will ration with you & will be very serviceable to you.  Deliver the enclosed message to the Chickasaws to be sent to their Nation.  
If you meet any Choctaws, tell them as I did not hear from them, I have made no arrangements for them, but that they will hear from me soon.  
The Powder & Lead which Genl Harmar will [order?] to go with you is intended for the Chickasaw.
if however there are any Chocktaws you must give them a [part?] - Genl Harmar will order you fifty Blanketts.  I promised Piamingo & Olaitamatie & the Party with him at the Fronts works eleven Blankets in payment for a Canoe two of my [undecipherable] stole from them; be sure to deliver [undecipherable], & tell them what it is for, the other Blanketts, which you will have on hand divide out to the people you meet whether Chickasaws or Choctaws.  
Be so good as to make one report of your transactions, that I may be able to close my [undecipherable] in this [undecipherable]
27 June 1790
Jno Doughty 
Major Artly [Artillery]
