---
author_note: Arthur St. Clair
authors:
- Arthur St. Clair
collection_id: 880
collections:
- 'First Congress:  Reports and Communications Submitted to the House of Representatives by the Secretary of War [1A-D2] (RG 233) {reference microfilm}'
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:41+00:00'
day: '15'
description: Peace with Indians impossible, St. Clair laid out a plan to defend Virginia's borders.  Gives numbers of militia from each county to rendezvous for offensive plan.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1790071590101'
omeka_image_id: 18642
images:
- d51857c58c9f3539c87d849cdc424df2cc27b165.jpg
month: '07'
notable_locations:
- Headquarters
- Fort Washington
- Virginia
- county
- Virginia's borders
notable_persons:
- multiple
- Arthur St. Clair
- Governor
- County Lieutenant
- Lieutenant
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- hostiles
- savages
- militia
omeka_id: 40809
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: Lieutenants of the Counties
recipients:
- County Lieutenants
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Copy of the circular letter from Governor St. Clair to the County Lieutenants
year: '1790'
---



Copy of a circular letter from Governor St. Clair to the County Lieutenants

HeadQuarter Fort Washington
July 15th 1790.
Sir, 
The interests of the United States dictating a peace with the Indian nations on the Ouabache if it could be obtained upon reasonable terms, I was directed by the President to give them information of the disposition of the general government on that subject, and to try to affect it - at the same time I was instructed by him to take measures for the security of the frontier country in case of their continuing hostile - the following is extracted from his instructions to me on that head (here was inserted that part of my instruction relative to the militia).  I have now to inform you that there is no prospect of peace with the said Indians at present, on the contrary they continue very ill disposed towards the United States in general and to Virginia in particular and
and many parties, are, from information lately received, now actually gone to war.  The commanding officer of the troops and myself have therefore concerted a plan of offensive operations against them, and in conformity with the above recited instructions I now call upon you, in the name of the President of the United States for men rank & file, and properly officered according to the legal establishment of the militia of your State, to act in conjunction with the federal troops against the said Indians, and that they be at [blank] on the [blank] day of September next, armed, accoutred and equipped for a service of sixty days or more after they shall have joined the troops, unless the objective view shall be sooner accomplished.
The laudable desire, and ardent spirit to repress the incursions of the savages, by which the militia have been actuated upon all occasions leave not room for a doubt but the present opportunity to punish them for the
the many injuries & casualties they have committed, will be embraced with zeal.  But allow one to observe, that it is of the utmost importance that they be punctually at the rendezvous.  
I have the honor &c
(Signed) Ar StClair

The counties of Virginia were called upon in the following proportion which were assigned them fro the best information I could get of their respective strengths.
The county of Nelson 125., Lincoln 125., Jefferson, 50 = 300 } to rendezvous at Fort Steuben on the 12th of Sepr. 
Maddison 125, Mercer 125, Fayette 300, Bourbon 125, Woodford 85, Mason 40 = 700} to rendezvous at Fort Washington Septemr 15th.
The counties of Pennsylvania the proportions of which were assigned them by the number of their representatives in assembly which being governed by the number of people from time to time appeared
appeared an equal rule, and was the only I had to go by, having been able to meet with but one of the lieutenants.  
Washington county 220, Fayette 110, Westmoreland 110, Alleghany 60 = 500} to assemble at McMahon's creek four miles below Wheeling on 3d Sepr.
