---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 991
collections:
- Executive Papers, Office of Governors Letters
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:41+00:00'
day: '17'
description: Protection of western frontiers by scouts to cease upon receipt of this letter.  Rangers to replace the scouts post of protecting against Indian attacks.  Details on troops.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1790071700201'
omeka_image_id: 13569
images:
- 15d25dacea3949c4f5f70ed233afb74b749346d9.jpg
- 45073576e118d572ffa8e9729524f97df8cc539f.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- imminent danger
- protection of the country
- species of patrols
- ceased and terminated
- duplicates
- high estimation
- expensive species of militia
- inefficacy of defensive measures
- extensive frontier
- depredations
- expense
- Constitution
- general measures
- rate of pay
- rations
- Virginia currency
- dollar
- oath
- return of the names, rank, residence, and time of service
- pay abstract
- account
- abstract of the rations
- payment
- triplicate receipts
- receipts
- certificate
- vouchers
- circular
notable_locations:
- War Office
- western territory
- north of the Ohio
- west of the Ohio
- Ohio River
- river
- frontier
- Virginia
- Kentucky
- Washington County
- Pennsylvania
- Harrison County
- Randolph County
- Ohio County
- Monongahalia County
- Kenhawa County
- Russell County
- Mason
- County
- Bourbon County
- Woodford County
- Madison County
- Lincoln County
- Mercer County
- Nelson County
- Jefferson County
notable_persons:
- Beverley Randolph
- Henry Knox
- President of the United States
- scouts
- militia
- Governor of the Western Territory
- Arthur St. Clair
- Shawnee
- Cherokee
- Indians
- banditti
- Brigadier General Josiah Harmar
- commanding officer
- lieutenants
- rangers
- regular troops
- ensign
- sergeant
- corporal
- privates
- attorneys
omeka_id: 40814
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '2'
recipients:
- Beverley Randolph
repositories:
- 'Virginia State Library: Archives and Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Termination of Scouts Employment
year: '1790'
---



War Office, 17th: July 1790.
Sir
I had the honor on the 13th day of April last to address you on the subject of the incursions of small parties of indians on the western frontiers.  In that letter I authorized you in the name of the President of the United States in certain cases of imminent danger to call out for the protection of the county certain species of patroles denominated Scouts; at the expence of the United States.  
I have now the honor by the direction of the President of the United States to inform you that the authority contained in said letter relative to the said scouts is to be considered as having ceased and terminated upon your receiving this letter, duplicates of which I have written  transmitted to you.  
The representations of the then deplorable situation of the frontiers counties, and the high estimation of said scouts were held in by the inhabitants, were the inducements of the President of the United States to consent to
to calling forth that expensive species of militia as a temporary measure for the protection of the exposed counties.  
But, as experience has demonstrated the inefficacy of defensive measures for an extensive frontier, against straggling parties of indians; and a conditional orders have been transmitted to the governor of the western territory, and the commanding officer of the troops of the United States, to act offensively against the Shawanese and outcast Cherokees joined with them, inhabiting northwest of the Ohio, who are probably the banditti which has for some time past committed depredations on the counties lying along the Ohio, And as the militia or rangers hereafter described will in cases of necessity be permitted, at the expence of the Union, in lieu of the scouts; it is presumed that no injury will be sustained by revoking the authority for calling into service so expensive a species of troops as the said scouts.  
The President of the United States is anxiously desirous of effectually protecting the frontiers
frontiers, and he will take all such reasonable measures, as in his judgement the case may require, and for which he shall be, by the Constitution, or by the Laws authorized.
	He has therefore directed one to inform you, that in addition to the general measure aforesaid, which have been ordered, he has empowered the governor of the western territory or brigadier general Harmar, or either of them to make the arrangement hereafter described for the internal security of the exposed counties.
	The said governor & commanding officer, or either of them will under their hands & seals, empower the Lieutenants of such counties lying along the Ohio, as they shall judge necessary to call forth, the number of militia, or ranger hereafter mentioned and under the regulations prescribed. 
	The said militia or ranger shall not exceed, for the internal defence of any county, one subaltern, one sergeant, one corporal & twenty privates - But such less number may be ordered as the said governor or commanding officer or county Lieutenant may judge requisite.
The said militia, or rangers shall during the time of their actual service, receive the following rates of pay, which are the same as is by law established for the regular troops of the United States and the militia viz.
	Lieutenant, twenty two dollars
	Ensign, eighteen dollars
	Serjeant, five dollars
	Corporal, four dollars
	Privates, three dollars 
Right side bracket stating- per month 
The said rangers shall be furnished with rations in such manner as the Lieutenant of the county shall think proper. The United States will allow for each ration six pence Virginia currency or eight & one third hundredths of a dollar- the subaltern to have two, and the non commissioned and privates one ration each.
Above paragraph has horizontal information: July 17th 1790
The Lieutenant of each county will be res-ponsible on oath that the said rangers shall be called into service only in cases of imminent danger, and that they be discharged as soon as the danger shall cease. 
	That when any service shall have been performed by said rangers, the following evidence,
evidence thereof will be required.
	A return of the names, rank, ages, residence and times of service of each of the said rangers.
	A pay abstract, or account for the number of said rangers agreeably to the aforesaid return.
	An abstract of the rations agreeably to the aforesaid returns.
	These papers to be signed & verified upon oath by the Lieutenant of the county, or commanding officer of the militia – who will transmit the same to brigadier general Harmar, or the commanding officer of the troops of the United States on the Ohio.
	Brigadier general Harmar, or the commanding officer of the troops, will certify on the said return, that the said rangers were ordered into service, in pursuance of this authority or the authority of the governor of the western territory.
	The paymaster of the regiment of regular troops will receive the amount of the said abstracts from the Treasury, or pay office of the United States, and pay the same to the county Lieutenant, and the said county Lieutenant 
									will
will pay each of the rangers respectively, taking triplicate receipts for the payments – two of which he must transmit to the paymaster aforesaid, within two months from the time he shall have received the money from the said paymaster – and untill these said receipts shall be transmitted to the said paymaster, the Lieutenants of the countries will be held responsible for the sums they may have received, or such proportions thereof, for which they shall not have produced receipts from the individual rangers (on their x) who performed the service.
		And whereas some of the counties may be involved in such imminent danger, as not to permit the county Lieutenants sufficient time to obtain the authority herein mentioned from the said governor, or commanding officer, in which case the county Lieutenants may order out the rangers herein mentioned under the regulations prescribed, or condition that as soon as may be, the said Lieutenant of the country & two magistrates, make a statement to the said 
										governor
7
governor & commanding officer of the reasons which induced them to order out the said rangers.  
This statement will be considered as essential in order that general C Harmer or the commanding officer may ground thereon his certificate on the pay abstract, without which, payments will not be made.  
It may perhaps be considered as unnecessary after stating the vouchers before mentioned, to add any further precautions against unnecessarily calling out the rangers before described - But as the said service is at best only to viewed as an expedient rather than temporary and desultory than permanent and regular; it is the earnest desire of the President of the United States, that is should be conducted with the highest economy.  He therefore has desired that the county Lieutenants may be strongly impressed with this idea as well from a personal regard to themselves as to the common welfare of the sestern country and the United States.  
If the permission now given be used with
with great discretion, and only in cases of real necessity, every consideration will in future justify a more extensive & perfect protection should the situation of the frontiers require the same.  
I shall beg that immediately upon your receiving this letter that you will inform me thereof.  
I have the honor to be Sir your most obedient humble servant, 
Signed H Knox 
(Circular)
To the Lieutenants of the Counties of Washington in Pennsylvania, and Harrison, Randolph, Ohio, Monogahaliea and Kenhawa and Russell in Virginia, and Mason, Bourbon, Woodford, Madison, Lincoln, Mercer Nelson & Jefferson in Kentuckey.
