---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 991
collections:
- Executive Papers, Office of Governors Letters
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:41+00:00'
day: '27'
description: Discussed types of depredations committed by the Shawnee and Cherokee banditti and notified Randolf of presidential authorization for the governor of the Western Territories to capture the
  offenders.  Believed that defense of Western Territories couldn't be complete as long as the offending Indians resided on the land "between the lakes and the Ohio [river]".  Details of plans for capture
  and extirpation.  Enclosed letter to Judge Innes.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1790072700001'
omeka_image_id: 13570
images:
- cba564574433e7ce4b2229335c4cdd82b592ee90.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- letters
- horses
notable_locations:
- War Office
- western territory
- Wabash
- river
- Ohio River
- north of the Ohio
- frontier
- county
- lakes
- county
- Kentucky
- Harrison
- Randolf
- Monongahalia
- Kenhawa
- Washington
- Russell
- Wythe
- Virginia
notable_persons:
- Beverly Randolph
- Henry Knox
- Judge Innes
- Shawnee
- Cherokee
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- banditti
- hostiles
- militia
- Harmar
- governor
- brigadier general
- perpetrator
- continental troops
- tribe
- mounted troops
- scout
- ranger
omeka_id: 40830
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Beverley Randolph
repositories:
- 'Virginia State Library: Archives and Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Indian Attacks
year: '1790'
---



Secy of War
[Editor's note: An oversized "x" in the middle of the page.]
1790
July 29th
War Office, July 19th 27th 1790.
Sir.
I had the honor on the 14th of April last, to transmit to your Excellency, copies of certain letters to the Governor of the Western territory or in his absence to Brigadier General Harmar, and to Judge Innes, in order to exhibit the species of protection which had been authorised on the part of the United States, for the protection of such of the frontier coun-ties as should be exposed to the incursions of parties of indians.
Since then, repeated information has been received of depredations committed on the Ohio, and in the counties lying along the same- From a variety of circumstances it appears highly probable that the Shawanese and out-cast Cherokees and others joined with them have been the perpetrators of the said depredations.  These indians seem to form an incorrigible banditti, whose outrages can-not
cannot be prevented while they are suffered to in-habit the country lying between the lakes and the Ohio_ Their whole numbers probably do not exceed two hundred fighting men.
The President of the United States, upon mature consideration, has therefore thought proper to give the Governor of the Western territory, and commanding officer, conditional orders to extir-pate the said banditti, provided the same could be effected without interfering with the general ob-ject of peace with the regular tribes lying upon the Wabash and its vicinity.
It is proposed that the expedition should be performed under the immediate command of Brigadier General Harmar, with about one hundred Continental troops, and three hundred militia of the neighbouring Counties of Kentucky, who should be engaged for thirty days from the time of their ar-rival at the place of rendezvous_ It is further proposed
proposed that both the regular troops and militia should be mounted on horseback if the nature of the country should permit that mode of operation.
The orders on this subject are to be considered as in force until the object shall be ef-fected.
As it is to be expected, that the result of the said orders will be productive of secu-rity and tranquillity to the frontiers, and as the expence of the scouts is considered a too great to be longer supported and as the rangers directed may effectually answer the same purpose, the President has thought proper to direct that the scouts in future to be discontinued.
I have the honor to enclose your Excellency, the copy of a letter, on this subject, to the 
[margin notes on left] *_ And also the country lieutenants of Mason_Bounbon, Woodford, Madison, Lincoln, Mercer, Nelson, and Jefferson in Kentucky
to the counties of Washington, Russell and Wythe you will please to have the goodness to direct the lieute-nants of the said counties comformably to the general rules pointed out in the regulations on the said subject.  In which case the lieutenants of said counties instead of having the service certified by the Governor, or commanding officer on the Ohio, will have the service certified by your Excellency, or by your order, and the abstracts transmitted directly to this office.
I have to request the further favor of your Excellency, that you would be pleased to direct, that the wages which have been allowed and paid by Virginia for the scouts, for each year since the peace to be transmitted to me, together with the general rules which were directed by the State for calling said scouts into service, and the evidence required of the performance of such service.
I will thank your Excellency for directing
directing that the enclosed letter be conveyed to Judge Innes, which besides the letter respecting the rangers contains letters for Brigadier General Harmar.
I have the honor to be,
Sir,
With great respect,
Your most obedient_and_
Very humble Servt
Knox
