---
author_note: U.S. Commissioners
authors:
- Commissioners for Indian Affairs in Southern Department
collection_id: 871
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers.  [microfilm]
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:41+00:00'
day: '07'
description: This is the speech of the the Commissioners of the Southern Department  prior to the signing of the Treaty of New York with the chiefs of the Creek Nation.
doc_types:
- Document
document_number: '1790080790301'
omeka_image_id: 18058
images:
- 28979c7005e7cc26a6509b5f583df8aff7eddd73.jpg
- 3c50dd63233916f397c1791409593cd8354c0ddf.jpg
- 4c46a8ddd3071c679300c8eb05584884ee6a7b9d.jpg
- 50aed70f2b04e732e53de71c7c41ff1bb40c4370.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- blesssings of life
- boundary
- land
- compensation
- promises
- supreme principal of the universe
- future peace and friendship
notable_locations:
- New York
- frontiers
notable_persons:
- Commissioners for Indian Affairs in the Southern Department
- Creek Nation
- rash young men
- white people on the frontiers
- Kings
- chiefs
- warriors
- great master of breath
omeka_id: 40850
page_start: '1'
repositories:
- Pierpont Morgan Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Speech of the Commissioners prior to Signing of the Treaty of New York
year: '1790'
---



Speech of the Commissioners to the Creeks previously to their Signing the treatyAugust 7th 1790
Indians
Aug 7 1790
Speech to Commi the Creeks 
[undecipherable line]
the treaty
[undecipherable] chiefs & warriors of the Creek nation attend!
It having pleased the great master of breath to put into your heads to explain to the President of the United States, in order to conclude a perpetual treaty of peace and friendship with the United States - I rejoice that we have come to a final agreement on that Subject.
Both parties on the frontiers will now rejoice in all the blessings of life and none shall make them afraid.
The boundary between the white people and your national will be [undecipherable]
in such manner, that it cannot be mistaken or misunderstood.
For the land you have relinquished you will receive an adequate compensation for the comfort of your selves & children.
The United States will be your steady and firm friends and will be ever ready to promote your happiness - impress upon your brethren and whole nation love and attachment to the citizens of the United States. 
In any event should turn up which should look as if the United States had forgotten these sentiments regard it not - they United States are just and true and will never depart from their promises - whenever you think yourself agrieved ask an explanation and it shall be given you.
At the same time guard the conduct your rash young men and prevent their injuring any of the white people on the frontiers as we are all members of one great family and their cause must be the cause of the United States - we will guard the conduct of ours, and punish all who shall deserve it. 
We will now proceed to read and to sign, and seal the instrument of our future peace and friendship and may the Supreme principle of the universe render it perpetual
New york 7th Augt 1790
