---
authors:
- George Washington
collection_id: 991
collections:
- Executive Papers, Office of Governors Letters
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:41+00:00'
day: '13'
description: Peace treaty between United States and Creek Nation.  Stipulated that the Creek Nation could not form any alliances with other nations, or pursue a treaty with an individual state. Prisoner
  exchange to take place.  Boundary established, "where the old line strikes the Savannah [river]" extending North to the Keowee, from the top of the Occunna mountain range, to the Tugelo river, additional
  details of the boundary included.  Line will be drawn by a surveyor.  Creek Nation to receive annual payment for the land the U.S. purchased and for friendship.
doc_types:
- Printed or published document
document_number: '1790081340001'
omeka_image_id: 15208
images:
- c68408cece78e7601aa44949a4ee99f600a71cef.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- treaty
- Indian goods
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Savannah River
- Occunna
- Tugelo
- Appalachee
- St. Mary's
- river
- territory
- frontier
- Indian land
- Rock Landing
- Oconee
- Georgia
- Savannah
- Keowee
- Occunna, mountains, Tugelo
- boundary
- Currahee
- Appalachee
- Oakmulgee
- Altamaha
- New York
- city of New York
notable_persons:
- George Washington
- Thomas Jefferson
- President
- Congress
- Creek Nation
- Indian Nation
- Henry Knox
- Upper Creek
- Middle Creek
- Lower Creek
- Semanolies
- Seminoles
- warrior
- chief
- kings
- prisoner
- Negros
- governor
- surveyor
- Richard Morris
- Richard Varick
- Marinus Willett
- Thomas Lee Shippen
- John Rutledge
- Joseph Allen Smith
- Henry Izzard
- Joseph Cornell
- interpreter
- Alexander McGillivray
- Cusetah
- Fuskatche Mico
- Bird Tail King
- Halletemalthle
- Blue Giver
- Neathlock
- Second Man
- Opay Mico
- the Singer
- Totkefhajou
- Samoniac
- Tallisee
- Tuckabatchy
- Hopothe Mico
- Tallisee King
- Opototache
- Long Side
- young  Second Man
- Soholeffee
- Ochee Hajou
- Aleck Colnel
- Natchez
- Chinabee
- the great Natchez Warrior
- Natzowatchehe
- the great Natchez Warrior's Brother
- Thatkoteehee
- the Mole
- Oquakobee
- Cowetas
- Tukenaah
- big Lieutenant
- Homatah
- Leader
- Chinnabie
- Matthews
- Juleetaulemathee
- dry Pine
- of the Broken Arrow
- Chawockly Mico
- Coosades
- Coosades Hopoy
- the Measurer
- Mutlthee
- the Miser
- Stimasutchkee
- good Humour
- Alabama chief
- Oaksoys
- Stimalejee
- Disputer
- Mumageechee
- David Francis
omeka_id: 40863
page_start: '1'
repositories:
- 'Virginia State Library: Archives and Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
title: '[Proclamation]'
year: '1790'
---



By the PRESIDENT of the United States of America,
  A PROCLAMATION. 
WHEREAS a Treaty of peace and friendship between the United States and the Creek nation, was made and concluded on the seventh day
of the present month of August: And whereas I have, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, in due form ratified the said Treaty,
Now therefore to the end that the fame may be observed and performed with good faith on the part of the United States, I have ordered the said
Treaty to be herewith published ; and I do hereby enjoin and require all officers of the United States, civil and military, and other citizens and inhabitatns thereof, faithfully to observe and fulfil the fame.
GIVEN under my hand and the seal of the United States, in the city of New York, the fourteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousandseven hundred and
ninety, and in the fifteenth year of the sovereignty and independence of the United States.

  G. WASHINGTON. 
By the PRESIDENT, THOS. JEFFERSON.}
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States of America.- To all to whom these Presents shall come, Greeting:
WHEREAS a Treaty of peace and friendship between the United States of America, and the Creek nation of Indians, was made and concluded on the seventh day of the present month of August, by HENRY KNOX, secretary for the department of war, who was duly authorized thereto by the President of the United States, with the advice and consent of the Senate,, on the one part, and the Kings, Chiefs and Warriors of the said Creek nation, whose names are hereunto signed, on the other part; which Treaty is in the form and words following: 
A TREATY of peace and friendship, made and concluded between the President of the United States of America, on the part and behalf of the said States, and the undersigned Kings, Chiefs and warriors of the Creek nation of Indians, on the part and behalf of the said nation.
THE parties being desirous of establishing permanent peace and friendship between the United States and the said Creek nation, and the citizens and members thereof, and to remove the causes of war, by ascertaining their limits, and making other necessary, just and friendly arrangements: The President of the United States, by Henry Knox, secretary for the department of war, whom he hath constituted with full powers for these purposes, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the Unites States: And the Creek nation by the undersigned Kings, Chiefs and Warriors representing the said nation, have agreed to the following articles, viz.
ARTICLE I.
THERE shall be perpetual peace and friendship between all citizens of the United States of America, and all individuals, towns and tribes of the Upper, Middle and Lower Creeks, and Semanolies composing the Creek nation of Indians. 
ARTICLE II.
THE undersigned Kings, Chiefs and Warriors, for themselves, and all parts of the Creek nation within the limits of the United States, do acknowledge themselves, and the said parts of the Creek nation, to be under the protection of the United States of America, and no other sovereign whosoever; and the also stipulate that the said Creek nation will not hold any treaty with an individual State, or with individuals of any State.
ARTICLE III.
The Creek nation shall deliver as soon as practicable, to the commanding officer of the troops of the United States stationed at the Rock-landing, on the Oconee river, all citizens of the United States, white inhabitants or negroes, who are now prisoners in any part of the said nation:  And if any such prisoners or negroes should not be so delivered, on or before the first day of June ensuing, the Governor of Georgia may empower three persons to repair to said nation, in order to claim and receive such prisoners and negroes. 
ARTICLE IV.
The boundary between the citizens of the Unites States and the Creek nation, is, and shall be, from where the old lines strikes the river Savannah -- thence up the said river to a place on the most northern branch of the same, commonly called the Keowee, where a North East line to be drawn from the top of the Occunna mountain shall intersect --thence along the said line in a South West direction to Tugelo river -- thence to the top of the Currahee mountain -- thence to the head or source of the main south branch of the Oconee river, called the Appalachee -- thence down the middle of the said main fourth branch and river Oconee, to its confluence with the Oakmulgee, which form the Altamaha -- and thence down the middle of the said Altamaha, to the old line on the said river, and thence along the said old line to the river St. Marys.
AND in order to preclude forever all disputes relatively to the head or source of the main south branch of the river Oconee, at the place where it shall be intersected by the line aforesaid from the Currahee mountain, the same shall be ascertained by an able surveyor on the part of the United States, who shall be assisted by three old citizens of Georgia, who may be appointed by the Governor of the said State, and three old Creek Chiefs to be appointed by the said nation; and the said surveyor, citizens and chiefs shall assemble for this purpose on the first day of October, on thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, at the Rock-landing on the said river Oconee, and thence proceed to ascertain the said head, or source of the main south branch of the said river, at the place where it shall be intersected by the line aforesaid, to be drawn from the Currahee mountain. And in order that the said boundary shall be rendered distinct and well known, it shall be marked by a line of felled trees at least twenty feet wide, and the trees chopped on each side from the said Currahee mountain to the head or source of the said main south branch of the Oconee river, and thence down the margin of the said main south branch and river Oconee, for the distance of twenty miles, or as much further as may be necessary to mark distinctly the said boundary. And in order to extinguish forever all claims of the Creek nation, or any part thereof, to any of the land lying to the northward and eastward of the boundary herein described, it is hereby agreed in addition to the considerations heretofore made for the said land, that the United States will cause certain valuable Indian goods, now in the State of Georgia, to be delivered to the said Creek nation; and the said United States will also cause the sun of one thousand and fiver hundred dollars to be pain annually to the said Creek nation. And the undersigned Kings, Chiefs and Warriors, do herby for themselves and the whole Creek nation, their heirs and descendants, for the considerations above mentioned, RELEASE, QUIT-CLAIM, RELINQUISH AND CEDE all the land to the northward and eastward of the boundary herein described.  
ARTICLE V.
The United States solemnly guarantee to the Creek nation, all their lands within the limits of the United States to the westward and southward of the boundary described in the preceding article. 
ARTICLE VI.
If any citizen of the United States, or other person not being an Indian, shall attempt to settle on any of the Creek's lands, such person shall forfeit the protection of the United States, and the Creeks may punish him or not, as they please. 
ARTICLE VII.
No citizen or inhabitant of the United States, shall attempt to hunt or destroy the game on the Creek lands; nor shall any such citizen or inhabitant go into the Creek country, without a passport first obtained from the Governor of some one  of the United States, or the officer of the troops of the United States commanding at the nearest military post on the frontiers --or such other person as the President of the United States may from time to time authorize to grant the same. 
ARTICLE VIII.
If any Creek Indian or Indians, or persons residing amoung them, or who shall take refuge in their nation, shall commit a robbery or murder, or other capital crime, on any of the citizens or inhabitants of the United States, the Creek nation, or town, or tribe to which such offender or offenders may belong, shall be bound to deliver him or them up to be punished according the the laws of the United States.
ARTICLE IX.
If any citizen or inhabitant of the United States, or of either of the territorial districts of the United States, shall go into any town, settlement, or territory belonging to the Creek nation of Indians, and shall there commit any crime upon, or trespass against the person or property of any peaceable and friendly Indian or Indians, which if committed within the jurisdiction of any State, or within the jurisdiction of either of the said districts, against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof, would be (undecipherable) by the laws of which State or District, such offender or offenders shall be subject to the same punishment, and shall be proceeded against in the same manner as if the offense had been committed within the jurisdiction of the State or District to which he or they may be log; against a citizen or white inhabitant thereof.
ARTICLE X.
In cases of violence on the person or property of the individual of either party, neither retaliation or reprisal shall be committed by the other, until satisfaction shall have been demanded of the party of which the aggressor is, and shall have been refused. 
ARTICLE XI.
THE Creeks shall give notice to the citizens of the United States, of any designs which they may know, or suspect to be formed in any neighboring tribe, or by any person whatever, against the peace and interests of the United States. 
ARTICLE XII.
THAT the Creek nation may be led to a greater degree of civilization, and to become the herdsmen and cultivators, instead of remaining in a state of hunters, the United States will from time to time furnish gratuitously the said nation with useful domestic animals and implements of husbandry. And further to assist the said nation in so desirable a pursuit, and at the same time to establish a certain mode of communication, the United States will send such and so many persons to reside in said nation as they may judge pro(undecipherable), and not exceeding four in number, who shall qualify themselves to act as interpreters. These persons shall have lands assigned them by the Creeks, for cultivation for themselves and their successors in office; but they shall be precluded exercising any kind of traffic. 
ARTICLE XIII.

ALL animosities for past grievances shall henceforth cease, and the contracting parties will carry the foregoing Treaty into full execution, with all good faith and sincerity. 
ARTICLE XIV.
THIS Treaty shall take effect and be obligatory on the contracting parties, as soon as the same shall have been ratified by the President of the United states with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States. 
IN WITNESS of all and every thing herein determined between the United States of America, and the whole Creek nations, the parties have hereunto set their hands and seals, in the city of New-York, within the United States, this seventh day of August, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
In behalf of the UNITED STATES,
HENRY KNOX
Secretary of War, and sole Commisioner for treating with the Creak nation of Indians. } (L.S0
Done in the presence of 
RICHARD MORRIS, Chief Justice of the State of New-York, (L.S.) (U.S.)
RICHARD VARICK, Mayor of the City of New-York, 
MARINUS WILLETT, 
THOMAS LEE SHIPPEN, of Pennsylvania, 
J{| class="wikitable"
|OHN RUTLEDGE, junior. 
JOSEPH ALLEN SMITH, 
HENRY IZARD,
|} of South Carolina, 
his.
JOSEPH + CORNELL, Interpreter.

          Mark

In behalf of themselves, and the whole Creek nation of Indians, - signed and sealed by
ALEXANDER M'GILLIVRAY,
And the Kings, Chiefs and Warriors of the Cusetahs, Little Tallisee, Tuckabatchy, Natchez, Cowetas.  Of the broken Arrow, Coosades, Alabama Oaksoys. 
NOW know Ye, That having seen and considered the said Treaty, do, and with the advice and consent of the Senate of the United States, ACCEPT, RATIFY AND CONFIRM the same, and every article and clause thereof: In  testimony whereof, I have caused the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed, and signed the same with my hand. GIVEN at the city of New-York, the thirteenth day of August, in the year our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety, and in the fifteenth year of the sovereignty and independence of the United States. 
G. WASHINGTON.
By the President, 
THOMAS JEFFERSON }
By Command of the President of the United States of America, 
HENRY KNOX } Secretary of the department of War.
ALEXANDER M'GILLIVRAY, (L.S.0
Fuskatche Mico X or Bird Tail King, 
Neathlock X or second Man, 
Halletemalthle X or Blue Giver, ]Cusetahs
Opay Mico X or the Singer, 
Totkeshajou X or Samoniac, }Little Tallisee.
Hopothe Mico + or Tallisee King
Optotache X or Long Side, 
} Big Tallisee
Soholeffee X or young second Man, 
Ochee Hjou X or Aleck Cornel, } Tuckabatchy
Chinabee X or the great Natchez Warrior, 
Natzowatchehe X or the great Natchez Warrior's Brother, 
takoteehee + or the Mole, 
Oquakobee + } Natchez.
Tukenaah X or big Lieutenant, 
Homatah + or Leader, 
Chinnabie + or Matthews, 
Juleetaulemathee + or dry Pine, } Cowetas.
Chawockly Mico X } Of the broken Arrow.
Coosades Hopoy X or the Measurer, 
Mutlthee X the Miser
Stimafutchkee X or good Humour, 
}Coosades
Stimalejee X or Disputer, 
Mumageechee + David Franicis, }Alabam Chief. Okayfoys,
