---
author_note: Henry Knox
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 880
collections:
- 'First Congress:  Reports and Communications Submitted to the House of Representatives by the Secretary of War [1A-D2] (RG 233) {reference microfilm}'
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:41+00:00'
day: '24'
description: Addressed Harmar's expedition to the frontier, Indian relations.
doc_types:
- Document Signed
document_number: '1790082400101'
omeka_image_id: 20311
images:
- 6d61d5cae28a6d38154d773b9c5efdf8f7ca3fc9.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- expedition
- circumstances
- enemy
- best arrangements
- intelligence
- rifle powder
- musket powder
- lead
- cartridge paper
- flints
- medicines
- capital articles
- contingent money
- close fight
- muskets
notable_locations:
- War Department
notable_persons:
- Josiah Harmar
- Henry Knox
- Governor Arthur St. Clair
- Indians
- President
- George Washington
- Major Doughty
- Samuel Hodgdon
note: An extract from this document is found in the American State Papers.
omeka_id: 40885
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: Josiah Harmar
recipients:
- Josiah Harmar
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Expedition to Frontier
year: '1790'
---



24 Aug. 1790 
The Secrey of  
War to Brigr.  
Genl. Harmar.
"I now acknowledge the receipt of your Letter of the 15 of last month by Governor St Clair, who has stated to me the plan of the proposed expedition against the indians, and the same has been submitted to the President of the United States, who has approved thereof -
"My letter to the Governor of yesterday, which he will communicate to you, contains some circumstances which may not be necessary to repeat. 
"The expedition you are about to undertake is not only of great importance in itself, but it may be attended with extensive and remote consequence — Every consideration therefore of a public nature, as well as personal to yourself, require that it should be conducted in the most perfect manner, that there should not be any omissions, but all just arrangements made to produce a due execution of every plan & order.
"A knowledge of your enemy's strength, situations & designs must be essential to your success, you will therefore make the best arrangements for obtaining intelligence.  
"While on the one hand your movements and execution should be so rapid & decisive as to astonish your enemy, so on the other, every possible precaution in the power of human foresight should be used to present surprize.  To enter into the details of the measures you ought to take to effect the former or prevent the latter, would be to attempt to preclude the exercise of your abilities. — The President of the United States is impressed with the conviction that you are aware of the importance of your command and that you will endeavour to make the best arrangements to insure success, and particularly that you will avail yourself on all occasions of the mature experience & judgment of Governor St Clair.  
"I have agreeably to Major Doughty's report directed Mr. Hodgden to forward two tons of the best rifle & musket powder, lead in proportion, cartridge paper, flints and the medicines you wrote for, the capital articles of which are doubled.
"I have transmitted you by Governor St. Clair one thousand Dollars for contingent money, for which you will forward me [undecipherable] receipts.  
"As it is probable that most of the militia may be armed with rifles, which are certainly not good arms in a close fight, it may perhaps be proper for you to attempt to persuade some of them to arm themselves with the spare muskets, you have in Store — 
P. S.
P. S. It will be necessary that you communicate the time of your setting out, the number of your command, the progress and termination of the expedition, and the various events proper for the President to know.
