---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 991
collections:
- Executive Papers, Office of Governors Letters
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:43+00:00'
day: '02'
description: Discussion of protection of Russell County with the President. The President is anxious that an expedition to the Indians be completed properly and successfully, without need for repetition.
  Refers to tension between militia, troops and extinguishing all jealousies that exist.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1790090200001'
omeka_image_id: 13598
images:
- b45e0826808251fc218407d5998c998369149369.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- treaty
notable_locations:
- War Office
- Russell County
- Virginia
- frontier
- territory
- New York
notable_persons:
- Beverly Randolph
- Henry Knox
- George Washington
- Lieutenant Governor
- Arthur St. Clair
- Wabash Indians
- Josiah Harmar
- Colonel Logan
- Colonel Selby
- Shawnee
- Creek
- council
- Indian Nation
omeka_id: 40896
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Beverley Randolph
repositories:
- 'Virginia State Library: Archives and Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Explanation of Expedition to the Shawnees
year: '1790'
---



War department, New York
September 2nd 1790
Sir.
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's favor of the 11th ultimo with the enclosures therein contained, and I stated to the President of the United States the protection you have extended to Russell County who [undecipherable] his approbation thereof.
I have also the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the lieutenant governor's favor of the 17th ultimo with its enclosures. 
Governor St. Clair has in person, laid before the President the plan of the proposed operation, against the Wabash Indians, which has been approved.
It being the anxious desire of the President
President, that the expedition should be effectual and not require a repetition, all the arrangements are made to accomplish so desireable an end. For this purpose, Governor St. Clair has been further empowered to require, if necessary, an additional number of men. If therefore there are any measures necessary to be taken by your Excellency, and the Council, in order to facilitate an additional number of men the President of the United States hopes that they will be expedited with all possible dispatch.
It has been suggested that the expedition may be liable to miscarriage from a jealousy of the militia and regular troops- It is devoutly to be wished that such suggestions may be entirely unfounded. But if jealousies should exist, it would be highly important, that they should be entirely removed, or suspended during the season of activity. I shall write particularly
particularly on this point to Governor St. Clair and to Brigadier General Harmar, to adopt the most conciliating conduct [undecipherable].
It has also been mentioned as a circumstance of considerable importance to the success of the expedition, that Colonels Logan and Selby should be induced to accompany the militia on the expedition, even as volunteers, great confidence being placed in the characters of those gentlemen. Could your Excellency therefore influence those gentlemen to go forth on this occasion, it would be highly acceptable and might tend greatly to the accomplishment of the public good. The expence of the expedition will be great, and if it should fail by any circumstances whatever, the public injury and disappointment will be in proportion.
It is thought proper for particular political reasons, to give the expedition the appearance
appearance of being levelled only at the Shawnesse
I have the honor to enclose some copies of the Creek treaty for your Excellency, and am
with the greatest respect
Your Excellency's 
Most obedient and very humble servant
H Knox
Secy of War
[outside marginalia] 
Letter for the Secretary at War
Send Sep. 2, 90
Sept 2, 1790
His Excellency -- Governor Randolph }

War office, September 2, 1790
Sir:
Govenor St.Clair has in person laid before the President
the plan of the proposed operation against the Wabash
Indians, which has been approved.
It being the anxious desire of th President that the
expedition should be effectual, and not require a
repetition, all the arrangements are made to
accomplish so desirable an end. For this purpose,
gouvenor St.Clair has been further empowered to
require, if necessary, an additional number of
men. If therefore, there are any measures
necessary to be taken by your Excellency and the 
council, in order to facilitate and additional number
of men, the President of the United States hopes they
will be expedited with all possible dispatch.
It has been suggested that the expedition may be 
liable to miscarriage, from a jealousy of the
militia and regular troops. It is {} to be
unfounded; but if jealousies should exist, it would
be highly important that they should be entirely
removed, or suspended during the season of activity.
I shall write particularly on this point to Govenor
St.Clair and to Brigadear General Harman, to adopt
the most conciliatory conduct. {line ending mark}
It has also been mentioned as a circumstance of consid-
erable importance to the success of the expedition, that
Colonels Logan and Shelby should be induced to accompany the
militia on the {undecipherable} expedition, even as volunteers; great
confidence being placed in the characters of these gentlemen.
Could your Excellency therefore influence those gentlemen
to go forth on this occasion, it would be highly acceptable, 
and might tend greatly to the accomplishment of the public
good. the expense of the expedition will be great, and if it
should fail by any circumstances whatever, the public
injury and disappointment will be in proportions.
It is thought proper, for particular and political
reasons, to give the expedition the appearance of
being leveled only at the Shawnees. {line ending mark}
I am, your Excellency's'
obedient servant.
H. Knox
secretary
To the Govenor of Virginia {
