---
author_note: Henry Knox
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 880
collections:
- 'First Congress:  Reports and Communications Submitted to the House of Representatives by the Secretary of War [1A-D2] (RG 233) {reference microfilm}'
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:43+00:00'
day: '02'
description: St. Clair's plan for campaign against Wabash approved by President, all materials afforded.  Jealousy among militia and regular troops and consequences outlined. It is thought proper for political
  reasons to give the expedition the appearance of being leveled at the Shawanese.
doc_types:
- Document Signed
document_number: '1790090200101'
omeka_image_id: 20312
images:
- ab8ceb95fae2ce23ff924e559c3f28c53b4363d3.jpg
- 60ff410896ef4117d83825db912f038f2c89fd76.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- expedition
- St. Clair defeat
- expense
- expedition failure
notable_locations:
- Virginia
- frontier
- territory
- War Department
notable_persons:
- Beverley Randolph
- Henry Knox
- Wabash
- Shawanese
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- Arthur St. Clair
- President Washington
- Governor Randolph
- Governor of Virginia
- militia
- regular troops
- Governor St. Clair
- Brigadier General Harmar
- Colonel Logan
- Colonel Selby
omeka_id: 40897
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: Beverly Randolph
recipients:
- Beverley Randolph
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Campaign Against Wabash Indians
year: '1790'
---



2d Septr 1790Secy of Wartothe Governorof Virginia
"Governor St Clair has in person laid before the President the plan of the proposed operation against the Wabash indians, which has been approved.
"It being the anxious desire of the President that the expedition should be effectual and not require a repetition, all the arrangements are made to accomplish so desireable and end for this purpose Govr Sr Clair has been further empowered to require if necessary an additional number of men.  If therefore there are any measures necessary to be taken by your Excellency and the Council in order to [undecipherable] an additional number of men; the President of the United States hopes that they will be expedited with all possible dispatch.
It has been suggested that the expedition maybe liable to miscarriage from jealousy of the militia and regular troops.  It is  devoutly to be wished that such suggestion may be 
entirely unfounded.  But if jealousies should raise it would be highly important that they should
be [undecipherable] removed or suspended during the seasons of activity.  I shall write particularly on this point to Governor St. Clair and to Brigadier Genl Harmer adopt the most conciliatory conduct.
"It has also been mentioned as a circumstance of considerable importance to the success of the expedition that Colonels Logan and Selby should be induced to accompany the Militia on the expedition ever as Volunteers, great confidence being placed in the characters of these Gentlemen.  Could your Excellency therefore influence those Gentlemen to go forth on this occasion, it would be highly acceptable and might tend greatly to the accomplishment of the public good. -- The expence of the expedition will be great, and if it should fail by an circumstances whatever, the public injury and disappointment will be in proportion.
"It is thought proper for particular and political reasons to give the expedition the appearance of being levelled only at the Shawanese.
