---
authors:
- Alexander Hamilton
collection_id: 967
collections:
- Alexander Hamilton Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:43+00:00'
day: '17'
description: Hamilton speculates on the evidence of impending war between Britain and France.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1790101737001'
omeka_image_id: 19419
images:
- 0f2b0a3f20a994a79e65417a679b863ac74c2c66.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- British packet
- warlike aspect
- English paper [newspaper]
- National Assembly of France
- Dutch fleet
- mysterious circumstance
- rumor in England
- communication
- meeting of the legislature
- peace
- defensive and commercial engagements
- National Treaty
- principles of justice
- armaments
- safety of the colonies and of commerce
- ships of the line
- frigates
- small vessels
- Positive orders have been sent to Lord Howe to fight if he can find the opportunity.
notable_locations:
- New York
- France
- Spain
- Quebec
- Philadelphia
- different nations of Europe
notable_persons:
- George Washington
- Alexander Hamilton
- Lord Howe
- General Clarke
- Sir Guy Carleton
- Department of State
- Department of the Treasury
- Commissioners for Settling Accounts
- National Assembly
- King
- ministries of his Catholic Majesty
- Ambassador from France in Spain
omeka_id: 40967
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- George Washington
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Impending War Between Britain and France
year: '1790'
---



From Alex.r Hamilton Esqr.
17.th Oct. 1790
Speech
G Britain [undecipherable]
pg 66.                 Copy Hamilton to Washington
New York Oct. 17th 1790
Sir,
I had the honor of receiving your letter of the 10th Instant by the last Post.  It is certainly very possible, that motives, different from the one avowed, may have produced a certain communication; and matters of such a nature, it is not only allowable, but the dictate of prudence, to receive suggestions with peculiar caution.
A British Packet arrived yesterday. The accounts, she brings, are all of a warlike aspect.  I have extracted from an English Paper the inclosed decree of the National Assembly of France; which though of a qualified nature tenor looks pretty directly towards the eventual supporting of Spain. The English papers hold it up as a decisive indication of a disposition to do so - And it is said in some of the letters which have been received that positive orders have been sent to Lord Howe to fight if he can find an opportunity.  The papers announce a second fleet of fifteen sail of the line ready to rendezvous at Portsmouth to be under the command of Admiral Hood.  Their destination unknown.
It is also mentioned the Dutch fleet has returned to the Texel; the Duke of Leeds having previously made a journey for an interview with the Dutch Admiral. This very mysterious circumstance is wholly unexplained.
A certain Gentleman, who called on me today, informed me, that a Packet had sailed the 16th of August for Quebec, in which went passenger General Clarke. He added that the rumour in England was that Sir Guy Carlleton was to return in her. He made no other communication.
The inclosed letter came to hand to day. I have had no opportunity of making any enquiry concerning the person recommended in it.  If I can obtain any additional lights, they shall be made known without delay.
The object suggested in your letter as preparatory to the Meeting of the Legislature shall engage my particular attention.
The papers of the Departments of State and the Treasury and of the Commissioners for settling accounts are on their way to Philadelphia.  On the 20th I propose with my family to set out for the same place.
I have the honor to be with the highest respect 
and truest attachment
Sir
Your most Obedient
& Most humble Servant
Alexander Hamilton
The President of the U States



Decree of the National Assembly
Thursday Afternoon four oClock
The National Assembly deliberating upon the formal proposition of the King, contained in the letter of his Minister of the 1st of August Decrees
1st That the King shall be prayed to make known
to his Catholic Majesty, that the French Nation in taking all
the measures necessary to maintain peace, will observe the
defensive and commercial engagements which his Government
has contracted with Spain
2nly.  Decrees moreover, that the King, shall be prayed immediately to charge the Ambassador from France in Spain, to negotiate with the Ministers of his Catholic Majesty for the purpose and to the effect of strengthening, by a National Treaty the ties and connections useful to the two Nations, and to fix with clearness and precision all the stipulations which shall not be entirely conformable to the views of a general peace, and to the principles of Justice, which will ever be the policy of France.
3dly The National Assembly, taking into consideration the armaments of the different Nations of Europe — their progressive augmentation, the safety of the Colonies and of Commerce, Decrees that the King shall be prayed to give necessary orders that the squadrons in Commission may be augmented to forty-five ships of the line, with a proportionate number of frigates and small Vessels.

[in another hand, lower left corner:] 1351
