---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 991
collections:
- Executive Papers, Office of Governors Letters
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:45+00:00'
day: '24'
description: Thanks Randolph for forwarding a letter to Governor Blount. Discusses the commutation and pension of W. Wilson.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791012400001'
omeka_image_id: 13786
images:
- d8f099c3b46e5bf4666557ae0b2212ca895e81e4.jpg
- 0be29113bc19b25b4af4fd6c953716763413c5c1.jpg
- a07319a5a09daa3e834368bcd9c3628d3b86f9da.jpg
- a801ca386e01fef496854f7bd9518f2d8ab61711.jpg
month: '01'
notable_items:
- letter
- pension
- commutation
- discretionary power
- act of Congress
- half pay
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Virginia
notable_persons:
- Beverly Randolph
- Henry Knox
- Governor Blount
- William Blount
- Willis Wilson
- Secretary of the Treasury
omeka_id: 41123
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Beverley Randolph
repositories:
- 'Virginia State Library: Archives and Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Pension of Willis Wilson
year: '1791'
---



Secretary at War h[illegible]
24. Jany 91
War Department. 24th 1791
Sir,
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellencys favor of the 3.d and 7th instant.
I am exceedingly obliged for your kindness in forwarding the Letters, in the manner you mention, to Governor Blount.  I am in hopes he will receive them.  I was apprehensive they might have been forwarded in another manner, and perhaps suppressed.
Entirely disposed to comply with your request in all things, I have communicated with the Secretary of the Treasury upon the subject of returning the commutation of the meritorious officer Willis Wilson.
It appears that he has already received
received one years pension from Virginia and one year from the United States, amounting to Two hyndred and fifty six dollars and sixty five and two third cents.__But it does not appear to whom he has returned his commutation, but it  is presumed to have been to Virginia.
Upon investigating this subject it doth not appear that discretionary power is lodged with the public servants to take any step upon this Subject, and therefore that nothing less than an act of the Congress would be adequate to authorize the return of the commutation.
As Virginia has been pleased to grant him the amount of his half pay, and as the United States will continue their payments to him; I submit the idea to your Excellency whether upon the whole this arrangement will not be much better for him than to endeavor to
to obtain a return of his commutation?
I have the honor to be, with great respect your excellency's most obedient humble servant,
H Knox Secy of War
His excellency the governor of Virginia
