---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 1012
collections:
- PML78916-78927
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:46+00:00'
day: 09
description: Letter, directs payment of Invalid Pensioners in Connecticut.
doc_types:
- Manuscript Translation of Letter
document_number: '1791020900001'
omeka_image_id: 23734
images: []
month: '02'
notable_locations:
- War Department
notable_persons:
- William Tinley
- Henry Knox
note: This letter is an endorsement to
omeka_id: 41163
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '3'
recipients:
- William Tinley
repositories:
- Pierpont Morgan Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: List of Invalid Pensioners in Connecticut
year: '1791'
---



Sir
I have the honor to transmit to you a list of the Invalid Pensioners of the United States, residing in the State of Connecticut, specifying the amount due to each of them for their annual pensions, commencing the 5th of March 1790, and ending the 4th of March 1791, inclusively, with my warrent thereon for the payment.

The Secretary of the Treasury will furnish you with the necessary funds to pay the said Invalids.

I have caused advertisements to be inserted in all the public papers, that the payments were to be made by the loan officers of the United States, on the 5th day of March next.

Every application for payment must be accompanied by the following vouchers—

First—The certificate given by the State specifying that the person possessing the same is in fact an invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which as such he is annually entitled.

Secondly—An affidavit agreeably to the following form: to wit—A.B. came before me one of the Justices for the county of	in the State of connecticut, and made oath that he is the same A.B. to whom the original certificate in his possession was given, of which the following is a copy (the certificate given by the state to be recited)

That he served in 	(regiment or vessel) at the time he was disabled, and that he now resides in the 	and county of 	and he resided there for the last 	years, previous to which he resided in 	

In case an Invalid apply for payment by an Attorney, the said attorney must, besides the certificate and oath before recited, produce a special letter of attorney agreeable to the following form:

I A.B. of 	county of 	State of Connecticut hereby constitute and appoint C.D. of 	my lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf 	of 	my annual pension, as an Invalid of the United States, from the fourth day of March, One Thousand seven hundred ad ninety.

In testimony whereof I have herewith set my hand and seal, this signed and sealed in the presence of 	Acknowledged before me

Applications of executors or administrators must be accompanied with legal evidence of their respective officers, and also of the time the Invalid died, whose pension they claim.

Those regulations ere during the course of the last year published in the respective States and it is presumed, are well known to all the invalids—although it is important to preserve an uniformity of vouchers, yet any immaterial differences from the above ought not to prevent payments.  But the identity of the invalid ought to be decisively proved upon oath, whether he applies personally or by his attorney.  The validity of the letter of attorney ought to be demonstrated.  The legality of persons applying as executors or guardians ought also to be proved.

But it is to be observed rigidly, that no payment whatever is to be made but by those contained in the above list.

You will on the fifth day of June transmit to this office a return of the invalids who have applied, and to whom you have made payments.

You will also note any deaths or removals which may have taken place of any of the invalids in the list transmitted by you, and of which you may be informed.

I am sir,
Your most obedient humble servant
H Knox
Secy of War

William Tinleiy [Tenley??] [Tinley]
Loan office 
For the State of Connecticut
Hartford
[endorsement] Pension list for 1 year from March 4, 1790 to March 4, 1791
