---
authors:
- Joseph Howell
collection_id: 778
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:46+00:00'
day: 08
description: Response to a verbal request for an examination into the claim of William Cleveland, who served in Col. Tyler's regiment and was a prisoner. Howell discusses Cleveland's claim regarding the
  length of his imprisonment. Cleveland's claims need documentation from Connecticut.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791020821101'
omeka_image_id: 22480
images:
- a224e65590712da9fe27e9a7fd06eb07d69e29d7.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- verbal request
- claim
- exchanged
- supplies
- Act of Congress
- depreciation
- pay
- settlement
- rations
- supernumerary pay
- account
- exoneration of charges
- lands
- evidence
notable_locations:
- Pay Office
- Connecticut
- New York
notable_persons:
- Goodhue
- Joseph Howell
- Lieutenant William Cleveland
- Colonel Tyler
- prisoners
- British
- officers
- Elias Boudinot
- Congress
- Army
- British Commissary of Prisoners
- John Beatty
- Governor of Connecticut
- Secretary of War
- Aaron Cleveland
note: Some text loss on first page - document torn?
omeka_id: 41160
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Goodhue
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pay Office
title: On the Claim of William Cleveland
year: '1791'
---



Pay Office, Feby 8th 1791
Sir/
In pursuance of your verbal request, I examined the claim of William Cleveland late Lieut in Colo. Tylers Regt and late a Prisoner -- it appears by evidence in my possession [that?] he was exchanged the 26th Augt 1778, but as it was customary [for the?] pr British Commisy of Prisoners to retain our Officers until the British Officers were sent into New York, I have not the least doubt of but that Mr. Cleveland continued a prisoner until he time mentioned by him
Mr. Cleveland stands charged in the Books of this office with the following sums viz?
1778 Sept 25 paid him by Jno Beatty Commisy G. of Pris. OE [Old Emissions] Dols. 57 recd of Elias Boudinot Esqr C.G. of P. [undecipherable] in Cash & Supplies - Specie 158.02Jno Beatty Esqr &c &c &c  63.38Dol 221.40
The State of Connecticutt should have considered this officer & allowed him his pay, which is particularly directed
The Officers who were prisoners are particularly provided for by the Act of Congress of the 16 April 1781.  Therefore the Depreciation of this officers pay should have been made good to him by the State to which he belonged when Captivated under this act no officer of the United States can settle with him except it is for his Rations while Prisoner and the Supernumerary Pay allowed under the Act of the 16 May
1781
1781 if on balance should [undecipherable] settlement, it will require the interposition of Congress to as the Act of limiting of Army Claims is contrued [sic] only to a settlement of Account in order to an exoneration of charges against the party or parties-- Mr. Cleveland also claims Land as a supernumerary Officer- if he can prove by any Register Record of the Govr Governor or Council of Connecticutt that he fully with the Act of Congress of the 24 Novembr 1770 I [undecipherable] hesitate to act & that the Regiment to which he belonged to when captured was on Continental establishment, I should not hesitate to report him to the Secy of War as entitled to the his proportion of Lands granted by the Act of Congress of the 16 Septem 1776.
I would advise Sir, that Mr. Cleveland produce the evidence on his favor of his applica wish to continue in service under (that of Aaron Cleveland I consider as improper) as is directed by the Act aforesd and that he come forward & settle his accounts and leave the result to the wisdom of Congress---his the Ration allowed him while while Prisoner will absorb the sums here charged against him.
I have the Honor to beSiryour obedt J Howell
The Honble Mr. Goodhue
19194
