---
authors:
- Eleazer McComb
collection_id: 778
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:46+00:00'
day: '14'
description: Writes that he has recovered from his illness and been appointed a commissioner to settle the accounts of the state of Delaware.  He hopes he will be welcomed at this position and informs Howell
  of actions he has already taken to improve business.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791021470001'
omeka_image_id: 22329
images:
- 10cd0d54dabe6ca7640ab66dd6c765cba0a7acdd.jpg
- 335a3a76638286a17657000a5201169cbafb1113.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- office
- suffered a confinement
- recruiting service
- laws
- usual state of health
- settle the accounts
- accounts
- appointment
- report
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Wilmington
- Delaware
- Pennsylvania
- New York
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- Joseph Howell
- Eleazer McComb
- clerk
- commissioner
- John White
- John Nicholson
- Comptroller General of Pennsylvania
omeka_id: 41173
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '2'
recipients:
- Joseph Howell
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Wilmington
title: Commissioner for settling Delaware accounts
year: '1791'
---



Josiah Howell junr Esqr
Philadelphia
Honble Mr. Vining
Feby 14 1791from Eleazer McComb
Wilmington 14th February 1791
Sir
Shortly after I received your letter advising my attendance at your office in New York to explain some matters in the Accounts [undecipherable] state before you made a Report on them, [undecipherable] and suffered a confinement of eight months.  I was unable to transcribe the Laws relating to the Recruiting Service, and having no Clerk could not send them to you as you requested
Having now recovered my usual state of health, and being appointed a Commissioner to settle the accounts of this State with the Board appointed by the United States, it becomes my duty to make preparation to execute the trust reposed in me.  I wish you, Sir, to inform me whether my attendance at the time with the Laws of this State, will be needful,-- And whether, if you should have made a Report on our accounts, that Report may not be amended, if you should be convinced, on receiving further evidence, an amendment was proper?
At the close of the business with 
the
the Commissioner of this district I transmitted two bundles of unliquidated Accounts directed to John White Esqr under cover to John Nichols Esqr Comptroller General of Pennsylvania.  These documents could not be received under the ordinance of [undecipherable] and were sent forward to [undecipherable] of other Accounts of the same nature which might be offered by other States.  If they have come into your office, and remain with you I wish you to return them to me provided it should not be necessary for me to come up immediately.
As I have undertaken to settle the accounts of the State for a certain sum of money, it behooves me to spend as little time in Philadelphia as possible.  I will [undecipherable] you, Sir, for your advice as to the manner of my proceeding, and where, in your opinion, it will be most suitable to attend the Board.
I am Sir,your most obedientand hble ServtEleazer McComb
Joseph Howell junr Esqr
