---
authors:
- Joseph Howell
collection_id: 781
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:47+00:00'
day: '25'
description: Discusses the account of John Sherman along with settlement certificates and appointing of regimental agents.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791022521001'
omeka_image_id: 15219
images:
- 23c4b6c50f3033c5b62cfd003c9a2ef961d225e2.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- account
- settlement certificates
- act of Congress
- appointment
- security
notable_locations:
- Connecticut
- Delaware River
- Pennsylvania
- Delaware
- Maryland
- North Carolina
- Virginia
- South Carolina
- Georgia
notable_persons:
- Oliver Wolcott, Jr.
- Joseph Howell
- Ralph Pomeroy
- comptroller
- John Sherman
- Shirman
- agents
- Connecticut line
- paymaster general
- regimental agents
- Commander in Chief
omeka_id: 41197
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Oliver Wolcott, Jr.
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Account of John Sherman
year: '1791'
---



Sir
Agreeably to your request of the 11th Inst. I enclose you a Copy of a Letter from Ralph Pomeroy Comptroller of the State of Connecticutt and many & several other papers relative to the account of I John Sherman as one of the Agents for distributing final settlement Certificates to this line sundries of the late line of that State--
The Acts of Congress are silent in respect to the mode of appointing the a late Agents to N for distributing the Certificates to the Army-- the first that I fin on this the subject was passed on the 3r Novemr 1783 which only directs the pay master General to deposit the Certificates in the hands of Regimental Agents whose duty was is also pointed out by that Act.
I have no knowledge by whom the arrangement for appointing of Agents was made but suppose from the mode of their appointment it was formed by the officers of each Regiment.
The Agents East of the Delaware were appointed were appointed by the Officers of the Regiment respecting in the same manner as paymaster as is [undecipherable] directed by the Act of Congress of the 27 May 78 relative to paymasters, with this exception, that the approbation of the Commander of in Chief was not required, and on their appointments taken place a Certificate was given by the officers which was presented by him to the PMGl
and by him filed as his authority to issue on the agents for Penna, Delaware, Maryland & North Carolina were appointed lineally.  Virginia So. Carolina & Georgia had no were settled with individually, one Rgt in Virginia excepted.
I do not know of any obligation given by the Agents security having been given by the Agents: or of it being required, neither have I any knowledge of any obligation on their parts for the faithful execution of the trust reposed, but the Receipts of the parties respectively.
I am Siryour obedt sertJ HowellFeby 25. 1791
Oliver Wolcott EsqrAcct of the Treasury
Feby 25. 1781To Oliver Wolcott Esqr on Jno Shermans Acct
