---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 525
collections:
- Draper MSS-David Shepherd Papers (SS)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:47+00:00'
day: '03'
description: Rally of volunteers, repair of Fort Pitt, and protection against Indians alluded to in general terms.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791030300101'
omeka_image_id: 9359
images:
- 2f0b9efdfa8dcec7995f2b5cdaa3e9c81d706242.jpg
- f53d15f397ba37fe49007f63240ca6ac9e1c4783.jpg
- 36fdff86c0b83fe64b91506ca580c6d1ed39d8d5.jpg
- e1d16f55547aa7e14bbb6d20361b06adb0694d88.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- depredations
- vigorous measures
- depopulating
- repair
- temporary defensive protection
notable_locations:
- War Department
- frontier
- western territory
- Ohio county
- Fort Pitt
- Virginia
notable_persons:
- Colonel Daniel Sheppherd
- Daniel Shepherd
- Henry Knox
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- frontiermen
- settlers
- Congress
- President of the United States
- hardy yeomanry
- troops
omeka_id: 41205
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- Daniel Shepherd
repositories:
- 'State Historical Society of Wisconsin: Archives Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Results of Congressional Debate on the Protection of Frontier
year: '1791'
---



Gen. Henry Knox Sec of War3d March 1791
Indian depredations in Feb
Preparations by US &c
The people of the frontier expected to join (the grand army of St. Clair)
To Col. D. Shepherd
5 [in upper right corner]
War Department3d March 1791
Gentlemen
The President of the United States has received your letter of the 19th of last month stating certain depredations of the Indians.
And he has commanded me to inform you that the Congress of the United States having been deliberating for some time past upon the means which may effectually protect the frontiers, have just concluded thereon.
That he shall take the most vigorous measures to execute the intentions
of
207 [in lower left corner]
T [handwritten in upper left corner] 6
of Congress.  That for this purpose men will be required to act offensively--- That it is to be hoped and expected, that as soon as the conditions shall be made known that the hardy yeomanry of the frontier counties will engage readily and chearfully, for a short period to act against the Indians and thereby prevent their depopulating the exposed parts of the county of Ohio.
That the governor of the western territory, who will immediately repair to Fort Pitt, or the commanding officer of the troops, will have discretionary power to make all necessary arrangement for the temporary defensive protection of the frontier counties which the 
occasion
7 [printed in upper right corner] 7. [handwritten in upper right corner]
occasion may require.
I have the honor to beGentlemenYour most obedient humble servantHKnoxSecy of War
[address]
Daniel Sheppherd Esqrand others of Ohio countyVirginia
208 [written in lower left corner]
