---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 531
collections:
- Draper MSS-Frontier Wars MSS
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:47+00:00'
day: '10'
description: Authorization to employ militia in response to the situation in Ohio County.  Enclosed pay and ration schedule for militia and rangers.  Details on payment, supply, and activity of those volunteering
  for service.
doc_types:
- Document Signed
document_number: '1791031000401'
omeka_image_id: 15115
images:
- dea79ab1b5554906ae138c1c43fa7a6386ae2a73.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- present situation
- authorization
- expense
- voluntary engagements
- defensive protection
- pay and rations
- oath
- muster rolls
- abstracts
- payment
- powers of attorney
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Philadelphia
- Ohio County
- Virginia
- Kentucky
- Pennsylvania
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Lieutenants
- rangers
- militia
- President
- troops
- county lieutenants
- Indians
- Commanding General
omeka_id: 41239
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: To the Lietenant of the County of Ohio in the State of Virginia.
repositories:
- 'State Historical Society of Wisconsin: Archives Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Circular Letter from the Secretary of War to the County Lieutenants of the Frontier Counties of Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Kentucky
year: '1791'
---



Gen. Knox - Sec. War10th March 1791To employ rangers &cTo Col. D. Shepherd &c
War department,10th March 1791
Sir
In consideration of the present exposed situation of the county of Ohio--- The president of the United States, hereby authorizes you to embody at the expense of the United States as many of the militia by voluntary engagements or otherwise, according to Law as in your judgement the defensive protection of the said county may require.
He is persuaded that from a regard to proper ecconomy, and your own character, you will not call out an unnecessary number of men.
The rangers to be called into service in pursuance of this authority are to be upon the same establishment of pay and rations as the troops of the United States, agreably to
9. 10. [upper left corner]
the schedule herein enclosed.
The county lieutenants are to make an arrangement for supplying the said rangers with rations; provided each ration shall not exceed the amount of eight cents.
The county Lieutenants are also to direct the said rangers to be mustered upon entering and leaving the service, and the officers commanding the said rangers, are to make oath to the truth of their muster rolls.
That muster rolls and abstracts for the pay and rations of said rangers are to be made out, and certified by the county Lieutenants, who are to transmit the same to the War office for examinations and defrayment; and also their powers of attorney to receive the money.
You will keep the said rangers in constant activity, in such directions as may
10. [upper right corner]
best serve to secure the inhabitants, and to give information of the approach of the Indians.
You will report to me, and the commanding general of the troops, in writing the number you may have called out by issue of this authority, and the arrangements you have made for furnishing them with rations---
This measure is to be considered as temporary, until other and more efficient arrangements, which are in train shall be carried into execution.
I amSir,Your humble servant,HKnoxSecy of War
To the Lieutenant of the county of Ohio in the State of Virginia
210 [written lower left corner]

(no. 18) [Circular Letter from the Secretary of War to the County Lieutenants of the Frontiers of Pennsylvania, Virginia & Kentucky]
War department,
10th March 1791
Sir
In consideration of the present exposed situation of the county of 
The President of the United States, hereby authorizes you to embody at the expense of the United States as many of the militia by voluntary engagements or otherwise, according to Law as in your judgement the defensive protection of the said county may require.
He is persuaded that from a regard to proper economy, and your own character, you will not call out an unnecessary number of men;
The rangers to be called into service in pursuance of this authority are to be upon the same establishment of pay and rations as the troops of the United States, agreeably to the schedule herein enclosed. 
The
The county lieutenants are to make an arrangement for supplying the said rangers with rations; provided each ration shall not exceed the amount of eight cents.
The county Lieutenants are also to direct the said rangers to be mustered upon entering and leaving the service, and the officers commanding the said rangers, are to make oath to the truth of their muster rolls.
That muster rolls and abstracts for the pay and rations of said rangers are to be made out, and certified by the county Lieutenants, who are to transmit the same to the War office for examinations and defrayment; and also their powers of attorney to receive the money.
You will keep the said rangers in constant activity, in such directions as may best serve to secure the inhabitants and to give information of the approach of the indians
indians, 
You will report to me, and the commanding general of the troops, in writing the number you may have called out by issue of this authority, and the arrangements you have made for furnishing them with rations;
This measure is to be considered as temporary, until other and more efficient arrangements, which are in train shall be carried into execution.
I am
Sir, etc
To the Lieutenant of the Counties of Washington, Westmorland, and Alleghany in Pennsylvania and Harrison, Randolph, Ohio, Monoahala and Kenhawa in Virginia. 
And
and to the honorable
John Brown of Kentucky, and others, with [undecipherable] instructions for the said district
