---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 525
collections:
- Draper MSS-David Shepherd Papers (SS)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:47+00:00'
day: '10'
description: Presidential authorization for use of militia to protect Ohio relayed to Sheperd.  Details of employment discussed.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791031000101'
omeka_image_id: 9360
images:
- 15ff41d28fbd2117ef550e0d49660e8491c7fc9a.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- exposed situation
- expense
- voluntary engagements
- pay
- rations
- schedule
- supply
- muster
- muster rolls
- abstracts for pay and rations
- power of attorney
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Ohio
- Western Territory
- Ohio County
- Virginia
notable_persons:
- Colonel D Shepherd
- David Shepherd
- Henry Knox
- President
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- hostiles
- rangers
- County Lieutenant
- militia
- commanding general
note: "Addressed to the Lieutenant of the County of Ohio in the State of Virginia.\r\nCited in Knox to Shepherd, 10/06/1791."
omeka_id: 41236
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '5'
recipients:
- Colonel David Shepherd
repositories:
- 'State Historical Society of Wisconsin: Archives Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Authorization for Use of Militia
year: '1791'
---



[Gen.] Knox Sec. War10th March 1791Employ rangers &cTo Col. D. Shepherd
War department
10th March 1791.
Sir
In consideration of the the present
exposed situation of the county of Ohio -
THe presidenct of the United States, herby autho-
rizes you to embody at the expence of the United
States as many of the milita by voluntary en
-gagements, or otherwise, according to Law, as in
your judgement the defensive protecting of
the said county may require.
He is pursuaded, that from a re-
gard to profess economy, and your own cha-
racter, you will not call out an unnecessary
number of men.
THe rangers to be called into ser
vice in pursuance of this authority are to be upon
the same establishment of pay and rationns as
the troops of the United States, agreably to
9. 10. [upper left corner]
the schedule herein enclosed.
The county lieutenants are to make an arrangement for supplying the said rangers with rations; provided each ration shall not exceed the amount of eight cents.
The county Lieutenants are also to direct the said rangers to be mustered upon entering and leaving the service, and the officers commanding the said rangers, are to make oath to the truth of their muster rolls.
That muster rolls and abstracts for the pay and rations of said rangers are to be made out, and certified by the county Lieutenants, who are to transmit the same to the War office for examinations and defrayment; and also their powers of attorney to receive the money.
You will keep the said rangers in constant activity, in such directions as may
10. [upper right corner]
best serve to secure the inhabitants, and to give information of the approach of the Indians.
You will report to me, and the commanding general of the troops, in writing the number you may have called out by issue of this authority, and the arrangements you have made for furnishing them with rations---
This measure is to be considered as temporary, until other and more efficient arrangements, which are in train shall be carried into execution.
I amSir,Your humble servant,HKnoxSecy of War
To the Lieutenant of the county of Ohio in the State of Virginia
210 [written lower left corner]
