---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 273
collections:
- Northwest Territory Collection, M367
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:47+00:00'
day: '11'
description: Discussed ongoing hostilities b/w "white men and red men".  Assured Indians of U.S. government military superiority and the ability to obliterate the Native American Indians if the gov't was
  pushed to war.  Expressed desire of peace and comfort for peaceful Indian Nations.
doc_types:
- Copy of document
document_number: '1791031100301'
omeka_image_id: 14735
images:
- 0dc70d4ac0e7879d91745ae673c5cac82a449368.jpg
month: '03'
notable_locations:
- War Office
- Miami town
- Miami river
- Lake Erie
- frontier
- territory
- Wabash
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Head Men
- Warriors
- tribes
- Miami
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- neighbours
- Secretary of War
- Thomas Proctor
- brothers
- great chief of the thirteen fires
- white men
- red men
- offspring
- Northern Indians
omeka_id: 41249
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: The Head Men and Warriors of the tribes of indians of the Miami town and its neighbourhood and inhabiting the waters of the Miami river of Lake Erie and to the tribes inhabibiting the waters
  of the river Wabash.
recipients:
- Head Men and Warriors of the Miami town
repositories:
- Indiana Historical Society Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: President's Speech Regarding Peace with Indian Nations
year: '1791'
---



[Message from the Secretary of War]
To the Head Men and Warriors of the tribes of indians of
the Miami town and its neighbourhood, and inhabiting
the waters of the Miami river of lake Erie and to the
tribes inhabiting the waters of the river Wabash.
Brothers!
The President of the United States, General
Washington, the Great Chief of the thirteen fires speaks to
you by this address. Listen attentively to him for
he speaks of things of the highest importance to your
future wlefare. The white men and the red men in-
habit the same country, and ought to be good friends.
But the contrary has been the case.
Injuries and hostilities have subsisted, and the last
year many lives were sacrificed on both sides.
This address to you is the offspring 
of a desire to save you from ruin. It is therefore of
the last consequence that you should understand
and receive it aright. It is unmixed with fear,
and dictated by the pure principles of humanity.
The President of the United States
The United States require nothing of you 
but peace; nay, they are desirous of making you 
to understand the cultivation of the earth, and teach-
ing you how much better it is for human kind to
have comfortable houses and to have plenty to eat
& drink, and to be well clothed, than to be exposed to
all the calamities belonging to a savage life.
The offer of peace now made to you 
is for your good, and the Great Spirit above will ap-
prove it.
Reflect that this is the last offer
that
That can be made - That if you do not embrace 
it now, your doom might be sealed forever.
Receive then the bearers Colonel Proctor and Captain Houdin, and our indian allies
who accompany them, with open ars.
After having pondered well upon the 
contents of this address, and what may be further said 
to the same purpose, call in your parties, and fly with
all your head-men to Fort Washington at the Miamies
of the Ohio - Send messengers also to all the neighbouring
tribes to come to the same place, and there make and
ratify a firm peace with General St. Clair, the great
officer of the United States, on the Western waters.
You will find the terms he shall
dictate will be full of justice, moderation and huma-
nity - You are now the only tribes with whom the
United States have any disputes. The powerful indian
nations south of the Ohio are our allies. The six na-
tions of northern indians are at peace with us; and 
we are desirous of receiving you into the number of
our friends, and to forget all the evil which has past.
If
If you refuse, all the nations will approve and 
justify your punishment.
Given at the War-Office of the
United States, in the City of Phil=
=ladelphia, this 11th day of March
1791
Message to the Miami
Indians &c - 11th March 1791.
[[illegible] Col Proctor]
copy
