---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 273
collections:
- Northwest Territory Collection, M367
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:47+00:00'
day: '14'
description: Knox instructs Georgia's Governor Telfair not to retaliate against the Creek Indians for their recent act of revenge for the murder of a Cusitah Indian.  Quotes A. McGillivray's letter regarding
  travels in Indian territory.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791031400401'
omeka_image_id: 14842
images:
- 9aad7775f1c2263acb9536f7fe6c12d420426270.jpg
month: '03'
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Georgia
- frontier
- territory
- middle towns
- county
notable_persons:
- Edward Telfair
- Henry Knox
- Creek
- George Washington
- James Rorie
- Alexander McGillivray
- Fushatchie Mico
- Koasati (Cusitah)
- Choctaw
- Chickasaw
- Cherokee
- Cusitah
- Cusetah
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- banditti
- militia
- Mico
- savages
- Six Nations
omeka_id: 41257
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Governor Edward Telfair
repositories:
- Indiana Historical Society Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: A Warning Against Retaliation in Georgia
year: '1791'
---



[The Secretary of War to Governor Telfair]
War department March 14th 1791
Sir 
I have the honor to inform your Excellency that your letter of November last containing a number of enclosures relative to some recent conduct of the Creeks and your letter of the 14th december, enclosing a provisional arrangement for the militia of Georgia, were both received at this office on the 2d ultimo.  
These papers have been submitted to the President of the United States who has directed me to transmit you the following answer thereto
The evidence transmitted would prove fully, that James Rorie was killed by the creeks were they disposed to deny the fact.  But they acknowledge it.  Mr McGillivray in a letter dated the 10th of december last, and which, has been just received, states the affair in the following words.
"In my passing through the middle towns the Mico & principal Warriors of the Cusitahs [Koasati or Coushatta] with some chiefs of the towns met me at the Oussiche town, from then I learned that they had promised the Governor of the State of Georgia to wait four moons for the satisfaction which the cusetahs had demanded from the state for the murder committed on one of that Town and that the time was elapsed, and nothing done towards satisfying the relations of the deceased.  On the contrary it appeared from good information, that the murderers were at large and protected by an armed banditti in the upper country, and could not be apprehended. The Fushatchie Mico, being head of the family consented to wait a fortnight longer at
at the expiration of that time, if the murderers were not brought to Justice, he would appoint a few young wariors, to take it in the upper country.  This he observed would be better than to suffer a numerous clan to turn out, who would not fail to do great mischief, and I am lately informed that the Cusitahs has killed a young lad on the frontiers and are not fully satisifed". 
Although the said murder is altogether injustifiable, according to the Usages and laws of civilized Societies, yet it is highly propable, the cruel event would not have taken place, had your Excellency's endeavour been successfull, to bring the atrocious murderer of the Cusitah Indian to Justice, agreably to your proclamiation of the 19th of July last.
The passion for revenge implanted in the earliest infancy of a Savage mind, and cherished by the force of habit, is almost uncontroulable.  The new made Treaty, the terms of which were neither published or understood, was too feeble to restrain the operation of so powerfull a principle.  
A Strong remonstrance will however be made to the Creeks, relative to the said murder and the fatal consequences displayed which must ensue, on their assuming or indulging a light of avenging themselves for the real or supposed injustices.  
But it is to be observed that the chiefs of the Creeks, at the time of forming the treaty mentioned, that the actual circumstances of the Nation, would not admit its full execution, until after the next general busk
or dedication of the first fruits, at that Solemn festival a general assembly of all the divisions of the Creeks nation would take place and the Treaty would then be promulgated discussed and ratified.  
The settlements of the Creeks are too dispersed, and their mode of communication too imperfect to admit its publication at an earlier period.  
It might be safely affirmed, that the due execution of the Treaty with the Creeks, is of considerable national importance.  Their situation - their numbers - and the influence of their superior policy over the neighbouring Indian Nations, render it a matter of great moment, whether they are to be regarded as the friends or enemies of the United States.  
fourteen or fifteen thousand Indians Warriors, especially when combined with other possible arrangements, form a force far from being contemptible even to the United States.and the warriors of the Creeks, Choctaws, Chickasaws and Cherokees are estimated at that number
The rude temper and state of manners among the Creeks, require time and management, to render them cordial to a treaty by which they cede such great portions of fertile country, possessed by them at the commencement of the late war. 
A Spirit of moderation and conciliation must be exercised on the part of the white frontier people, in order to render the treaty of any advantage.  
If violence and outrage take place, on our parts, such conduct will be followed, by blind and indiscriminate revenge
revenge on the part of the Indians.
As the Creeks profess they are now Satisifed for the murder of the Cusitah Indian on the 4th of July last, it is not probable they wlil commit any further mischief on that account.
It will be the full expectation of the United States, by whose treasures generally the expenses of the war must be borne, that no irregular or unjustifiable conduct of any of the citizens or members of the Union should create an Indian war.  But if not withstanding the desire to avoid such an event, it should be brought on by the Indians themselves, the United States would undoubtedly meet it with a proper degree of fortitude, and prosecute it vigourously, until it should be terminated.  
The United States are involved in a contest with several Indian tribes north west of the ohio, and the issue of the last expedition has constrained the government to take more extensive arrangements - But an Indian war under any circumstances in considered as an unfortunate event, and ought to be avoided if possible consistently with national justice and dignity.  
The provisional arrangement which you have been pleased to direct to the militia for the support of the posts upon the frontiers must be presumed to be well calculated for the end, but it is devoutly to be hoped that no occasion will occur for calling it into activity
With great respect &c
H. Knox 
Secretary of War
His Excellency The Governor of Georgia
