---
authors:
- Jeremiah Olney
collection_id: 670
collections:
- Jeremiah Olney Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:48+00:00'
day: '14'
description: Letter, discusses recommendations of character for officers.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791041440001'
omeka_image_id: 9273
images:
- 56f08aa210bc0510a1b953f0415fdd2218d9c097.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- military character
- business
- health
- military glory
- recommend
- appointment
- reputation
- intemperance
- supply
- clothing
notable_locations:
- Providence
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Jeremiah Olney
- Colonel Dexter
- Captain Holden
- Captains
- subaltern officers
- Lieutenant S
- Major Franklin
- Colonel Daniel Tillinghast
omeka_id: 41345
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Rhode Island Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Providence
title: Request for Character Witness Concerning Officers
year: '1791'
---



28 [circled] (private)
Providence 14th April 1791
Dr Sir
I have been honor'd with your (Confidential) Letter of the 5' Inst., Respecting appointments &c.
All the old Captains of Reputation being now settled [undecipherable} with their Families, & having engaged in some sort of business, do not again incline to assume a millitary Character.  Capt. Holden, whom you mention, was as Officer of Excellant Character; but his health is now, and has been for a year past, much impaired,--which would prevent his acceptance of the Company, even did his Heart again Thirst for millitary Glory-- and the Subaltern Officers are much Distressed, some of whom are gone from have left the State; it is therefore out of my power at present to recommend a person from among them that would accept, & Do honor to the Appointment, as I have not had an opportunity to advise with any of them; but will endeavour to as soon as possible, & acquaint you by Capt. [undecipherable] who leaves this Town in Ten days, for Philadelpha
It is a very unpleasing and Delicate Task to draw the dark side of a persons character, but Sir, as you have, in Confidence, Requested this of me Respecting Lieut. S_____ I will give it you in a few Words. he was an officer who served with Tollerable Reputation in the army; Tho, I never thought him very Enterprising-- and since the
War
War [undecipherable] he has rather fallen into the Habbits of [undecipherable].  This I have from good Authority, I seldom see him myself, as he Resides in the South part of the State--[undecipherable] [undecipherable] [undecipherable] [undecipherable]
Major Franks has left this Town yesterday morning; Colo. Danl. Tellinghart has undertaken to supply the Company &c--- I will attend to the Cloathing when it arrives--
I am with much EsteemD Sir your obed. Humb. SertJereh Olney.
Henry Knox Esquire--Secretary at War
[along lower left margin]To Genl Knox, Secy of War13th April 1791
