---
authors:
- Caleb Swan
collection_id: 680
collections:
- Walker Family Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:49+00:00'
day: '29'
description: Caleb Swan accounts for his time and travels among the Creek Indians. He has learned a bit of their language, but once McGillivray departed for his winter home in Florida, he found it intolerable
  to remain, and thus left early.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791042940001'
omeka_image_id: 11647
images:
- 6d72cf20e24fdbc2dfb30cd76b48b5a299673513.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- treaty
- Indian villages
- friendship
- truth
- conduct
- language
- jealousy
- observations
- barbarians
- habits
- horses
- plantation
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- New York
- Chatahoochee River
- Cowela District
- Little Tallassie, Natchez
- Alabama
- St. Mary's River
- Flint River
- Sensau
- Florida
- Alabama River
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Caleb Swan
- Creek
- Alexander McGillivray
- Tuckabatchee
- Coosade
- Spaniards
- Creeks
- Indians
omeka_id: 41393
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Ohio Historical Society: Archives-Manuscripts Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Report on living amongst the Creek Indians
year: '1791'
---



Philadelphia April 29, 1791
To the Honorable Henry Knox, Esq. Secretary
of the Department of War
Sir, pursuant to the letter of instructions I had the honor to receive from you on the 18th of August 1790, I accompanied Brigadier General McGillivray and the chiefs and warriors of the Creek Nation, who attended the Treaty in New York, from that place to their Nation. Fortunately no disaster happened on our voyage to St. Mary's River or on our journey by land thru the country, that occasioned me to you use the authority you were pleased to give me on drawing on you if it should be found necessary, and we all arrived safe at the first Indian villages the latter part of September.
Situated as I found myself among these people, it was not only my inclination but I found it my interest to become as useful as possible to the great
and on all occasions I endeavored to press on the jealous minds of the Indians in general that the white people of the United States were sincere and candid in all their overtures for peace and friendship towards them. And that being myself in their power, I was pledged to them for to the truth I had told them, and which their friends had been witnesses of at the great white town.
I conceived that Genr. McGillivray viewed me for sometime rather in the light of a spy otherwise, but from a uniform declaration and a persevering attention of his person I was  flattered that all his suspicions were removed and from an alteration of his conduct towards me I have reason to believe that I gained his confidence effectually.
I found from experiment that to learn the language and pronounce it well must be a task   of several youthful years; therefore after obtaining a vocabulary of their principle words  and some familiar sentences, I directed my inquiries more particularly to the other objects contained in your letter.
In making notes while in the country, I found myself watched with an eye of jealousy and therefore thought it prudent to keep them out of sight; which I always did even from my only friend McGillivray himself.
Going through the country down at the Southern corner of it, travelling up the Chattahoosee river to the Coweta district, from thence crossing the country Westward to Little Tallassee, and by coming out of it b the route thru all the districts and tribes of the Upper Creeks and Natchez together with a variety of jaunts and visits to the different towns of the Coosades and Alabamas, and to one general meeting at the Tuckabatches while residing at Little Tallassee has afforded me a comprehensive view of thewhole country of the Lower and Upper Creeks; and an opportunity of seeing all of the largest villages and becoming generally known among them.
The following sheets contain the result my of my observations of my excursions which I humbly beg leave to have the honor of offering to you, with a hope that they will contain such information with respect of the Natives and
the fine country they possess as may be pleasing and do satisfactory to yourself as well as interesting and useful to the government.
To be attached to the Indians and their manner of living is at once sacrificing all the social virtues of disgusting habits of savage barbarians –
It is a custom of McGillivray to spend his winters on the sea coast with the Spaniards,   leaving his wife, servants and horses at a plantation he has near Tensaw, within the borders of West Florida about 180 miles above the above the Alabama River, of of returning to pass his Summers in the Nation. I, therefore, could not have remained  in the country through the Winter Season without suffering the inconvenience of cold and probably hunger, and these without an associate or companion.
These Sir are the reasons that induced me to leave the Country so soon, and I presume that whoever may try the experiment even for no longer than I have dome, will find sufficient exercise for their patience fortitude and solitary philosophy -
I have the honor to be your
for the most perfect veneration respect 
your devoted & obt honor servt
Caleb Swan
[illegible] Creek Nation
