---
authors:
- Harry Innes
collection_id: 594
collections:
- Harry Innes Papers, mm81027201
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:49+00:00'
day: '20'
description: Troops under Gen. Scott to march from Frankfort on Kentucky River shortly.  Board recently convened to provide report on offensive action against hostile Indians after troops return from western
  territory.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791052040001'
omeka_image_id: 10888
images:
- b0a35db3ddaf0eed1d47efe58b97b7d6346d9723.jpg
- 5e80125db564dcefda61dbcdaefcde606c2fd185.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- appointed
- well mounted
- well armed
- special report
- expedition
notable_locations:
- War Office
- Kentucky
- frontier
- territory
- river
- Frankfort
- Kentucky River
- Ohio
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Harry Innes
- hostiles
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- General Scott
- volunteers
- Benjamin Logan
- Isaac Shelby
- Mr Brown
- spies
omeka_id: 41480
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '2'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Kentucky
title: Troops Ready to March
year: '1791'
---



136
[undecipherable]
Kentucky, May 20th1791
Sir.
The board appointed by your letter to General Scott of the 9th of March took the Subject into consideration on the 8th day of April, and it is with real satisfaction we inform you that the propositions  Continued in the letter were received with pleasure by the inhabitants of the district, and that the first detachment authorized to be raised Marched on the 17th district -from Frankfort on the Kentucky in high spirits under the command of General Scott.
We shall not be considered vain when we observe that a more choice body of men could not be raised in the United States- young-healthy-well armed-well mounted-and  a supply provided with provisions-He flattered that nothing can prevent Success: unless the energy should gain information of their approach and evacuate their towns- of this we have some apprehensions, as two prisoners have been taken since the inlistment of the volunteers commenced. On the return of the Army, the
board will make to the War Office a special report of their perceedings. For the present we hope the above information is sufficiently satisfactory.  
We have the honor to be with great respect, Sir, Your Mo. ob. Servts. 
(Signed.) Harry Innes, Benjamin Logan, Isaac Shelby
May 30th
I yesterday received a letter from Mr. Brown who is gone on this expedition as a private dated the 23d inst: wherein he says that the detachment will march that day in good spirits with 20 days provision, and this day unless greatly impeded in their march hope to make their stroke. The spies had seen no recent sign of Indians near the Camp on the bank of the Ohio opposite the Mouth of Kentucky, therefore he concluded that the Army had not then been discovered by the enemy.  
[signed} Harry Innes
Reproduced from the collections of the Manuscript Division, Library of Congress
[Left margin: Copy from the Original on file in the War Office of the United States - Jno Stagg Junr Chf Clk
