---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 976
collections:
- John Adams Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:50+00:00'
day: '10'
description: Thanks Adams for the use of his estate at Bush Hill near Philadelphia, as it provides relief from the summer heat in the city.  Reports on various hostile remarks being published about Adams
  and his recent journey; reassures Adams not to worry about such things.  Expects arrival of the president shortly.  Comments that the new Indian campaign has begun.
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1791061000001'
omeka_image_id: 19896
images:
- ba335efe2ccf52083651d78cf4b62612f6da96c0.jpg
- 124a55e7a06278736e83a0889e48695659b6a3c3.jpg
- 5ebba3b3176d7eb615adc5e43bc284d97b26b880.jpg
- 5f6371dc3605bb9cfb993a8f75caede074a7d10a.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- letters
- comfortable accommodation
- newspapers
- papers
- journey
- political heresies
- pamphlet
- Indian campaign
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Bush Hill
- Connecticut
- New York
- frontiers
notable_persons:
- John Adams
- Henry Knox
- Abigail Adams
- Payne
- printer
- President
- George Washington
- Indians
- Colonel Smith
- Vice President
note: '2 COLLECTIONS: one with photocopy images, one without images.'
omeka_id: 41569
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- John Adams
repositories:
- Massachusetts Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Report on Public Opinion & New Indian Campaign
year: '1791'
---



Philadelphia 10th of June 1791
My dear Sir
I embrace the occasion of [missing text] enclosing some letters, to thank you and Mrs Adams for the comfortable accommodation of your house at Bush Mill.  While the inhabitants of this City are panting for breath, like a hunted hare, the experience in the Hall at Bush Mill a delightful and animating breeze 
The paragraphs in the Connecticut and New York papers relative to your journey indicate envy and blackness of heart.  Who the Author of the articles is I know not & it is quite immaterial.  But eminence must be taxed.  
Perhaps the political heresies mentioned in the preface to the American edition of Payne, pamphlett, as coming from a more
more respectable quarter may occasion some uneasiness.  But the author has assured one that the note he wrote to the printer, never was intended for publication, but as a sort of apology for having detained the book which was a borrowed one, longer than the impatience of the printer would admit.  
But if the idea was aimed at your doctrines it ought not to create a moments pain.  Conscious as you are, of the invariable pursuit of the public happiness, regulated the the sober standard of reason, it is not the defectory ebulition of this, or that mans mind that can divert you from your object.  For while human nature shall continue is course according to its human principles there will be a difference
difference of judgement upon the same objects even among good men.  
The President is expected to arrive here about the 23d or 25th instant But there is no information from him since the 16th of May.  He has been perfectly received according to the abilities of the places through which he has passed.
The Indian Campaign must go forward.  [undecipherable]  have marched and shall march by the latter end of this month 2800 men.  This force will be adequate with the addition of the troops already on the frontiers.
Permit me to congratulate
congratulate you and Mrs Adams on the arrival of Colonel Smith
I am my dear Sir 
with the most respectful attachment Your obedient Servant H Knox 
The Vice President of the United States
