---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 412
collections:
- General Collection
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:52+00:00'
day: '07'
description: Enclosed letter and contract for provisions. Purchase of pack-horses at Fort Pitt advisable with consent of Commander-in-Chief and Maj. Gen. Butler.  General advice on purchase of provisions
  and compensation.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791070700101'
omeka_image_id: 7987
images:
- c6f19983aab107fe3e62b3d1432e039e92ba44d0.jpg
- f92d1a6e8b8163cf29b09ab3158414b96f32a468.jpg
- d484f8dd9a278147b3511ebedfa8b7bd68f039ef.jpg
- e56c437fe117dd21578e928107cf2e4e15fb7077.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- provisions
- supplies
- pack-horses
- pack horses
- contract
- transportation
- price
- ration
- forage
- expedition
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Fort Pitt
- frontier
- Treasury
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Henry Knox
- Commander-in-Chief
- Major General Butler
- contractor
- Wilkie
- paymaster
omeka_id: 41710
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- 'James S. Copley Library: Copley Press Inc.'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Provisions and Conduct
year: '1791'
---



Letter from the War Office dated 7th July 1791Recd 14th
Letter from Genl Knox--dated July 7th 1791Recd the 14th July 1791
War departmentJuly 7th 1791
Sir
I have received your letter of the 20th of June, which is highly satisfactory.
I enclose you a copy of my last of, the 30th, and also agreably to your request a copy of the contract for provisions.
I am decisivly of opinion that the purchase of the pack-horses, is greatly preferable to the hiring of them--Having no doubt on this point from having weighed the subject--I request you, with the approbation of the Commander in Chief and Major General Butler while you are at Fort Pitt, to proceed according.
The contractor is to deliver the pro-
visions

provisions on the line in which the army [undecipherable] operate--of course he must be at the expected [undecipherable] and trouble of the transportation.--
I hope for the public interest, as well as his own, that there will be no deficiencies of his agents from any cause whatever.  But in case there should be, I rely upon [undecipherable] you will administer the proper remedies.--[undecipherable] there must not be any interposition on your part unless in cases of extremity, you will then interfere upon the orders of the Commander in Chief--and the advances you make must be settled at the treasury with the contractor according to the contract.
I learn that Mr. Wilkie is to [undecipherable] the pack-horses for the contractor, [undecipherable] that he is provided with the means for that purpose.
The
The price of the ration of forage is fixed by law--On the expectation it will be furnished by the public, or [undecipherable]--In the one case the public will pay for the forage and in the other the officers will be paid by the paymaster.
I am highly pleased that Major General Butler entirely approves your conduct--I am persuaded it will be the same with the Commander in Chief and the public.
I am Sir,with great esteem,Your most obedt ServtHKnox
Hodgdon Esqr
The price of the ration of forage is fixed by law--On the expectation it will be furnished by the public, or or not at all--In the one case the public will pay for the forage and in the other the officers will be paid by the pay-master.
I am highly pleased that major general Butler entirely approves your conduct--I am persuaded it will be the same with the Commander in Chief and the public.
I am Sir,with great esteem,Your most obedt ServtHKnox
Samuel Hodgdon Esqr
