---
authors:
- Timothy Pickering
collection_id: 672
collections:
- Timothy Pickering Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:53+00:00'
day: '21'
description: Pickering discusses the embassy to the Western Indians, land surveying, and a letter's mistranslation.
doc_types:
- Contemporary Copy of Letter
document_number: '1791072140001'
omeka_image_id: 8564
images:
- c1f35a7913a84d41039447cb6671e157c3f4497a.jpg
- b7500876898ae3caec2f7a3380fcd3c0af2727d3.jpg
- f6cdff1517f3c637b3effa38c897ff7cf3317b91.jpg
- e81e6472a40b9cef2a05addd2cd73ed59b3825cc.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- duplicate
- letter
- message
- peace belts
- lodged
- certificate
- council
- surveying
- certificate of his good character
- real appointment from the President
- Indian choice
- rough grounds
- profession of surveying
- services he might render them
- compensation
- writing for the Indians
- unfit for employment for want of capacity
- bribery and deception
- certificate of his good character
- deposition of Ephraim Webster
- his opinion
- enquiries
- measure was opposed by others
- further attempts from them to restore peace would have no effect
- their importunities
- weakness and fear
- authority of the United States
- visit to the Western Indians
- departure was so long delayed
- enclosed letters by friends
- duplicate of Capt. Hendrick's letter and my answer
- queries
- arrangement be approved
notable_locations:
- Newtown Point
- Wilkes-Barre
- Seneca country
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Timothy Pickering
- Reese
- Little Billy
- William Ogden
- Red Jacket
- William Maclay
- Judge Hardinburgh
- Ephraim Webster
- Captain Hendrick
- Parrish
- Sansom
- chiefs
- practical land surveyor
- Senators of the United States
- agent they had chosen
- Indians
- reputable men
- Oneida
- superintendent or agent
- Six Nations
- Seneca
- Western Indians
- hostile Indians
- York Line
- Samuel Ogden
note: A copy bound within Indian treaties, p. 94.
omeka_id: 41779
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Peabody Essex Museum: Phillips Library'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Wilkes-Barre
title: Embassy to the Western Indians, Etc.
year: '1791'
---



Letter to Genl Knox
Wilkesbarre July 21.1791
a copy bound up in
Indian Treaties O.P.
Letter to Gen.l Knox
Wilkesbarre July 21, 1791
To Genl Knox, copy of [undecipherable]
July 21. 1791--a copy bound up with Indian Treaties p. 94-O.P.
Wilkesbarre July 21. 1791.
Sir
I expected to have sent the pending inclosed letter by Friends Parr & Sansom, from Newtown Point; but they were so obliging asto wait for me, and Friend Parrish & I 
we arrived here together last evening, in a canoe the left Newtown Point (instant about 120 miles as the river runs) the 18th, at about 5 o'clock P.M. in a canoe and arrived here, in a canoe, last evening.
I now inclose a duplicate of Capt. Hendrick's letter and my ansswer, as well as of his queries aan my answers, so that you may send them by different conveyances, if (as I said before) the arrangement be approved.
It is to be regretted that Captain Hendrich's departure was so long delayed: but he waited first to get information from some of his acquaintances & friends who lived in the Seneca country; not knowing but it might be expedient to advize with them Senecas was the Six nations generally on the subject of this visit to the Western Indians. But after making his enquiries, he appeared to be confused in his opinion--that they did not merit his confidence. Nevertheless, after he was ready to set out, he waited near three days, at the request of some Chiefs of the Six Nations, who proposed that they should send by him a message to the hostile Indians; but the measure was opposed by others, who said that any further attempts from them Six Nations to restore peace would have no good effect; on the contrary, they supposed it would do hurt, by leading the Western Indians to ascribe their importunities to weakness and fear. No message was sent the Oneidas manifested their good will, by furnishing goods, some peace belts to Capt. Hendrick; [undecipherable] 
The Six (or rather 5) nations have afficiously chosen a [super?]
three papers inclosed. one, the deposition of Ephraim Webster. It another a certificate of his good character signed by Judge [undecipherable]Hardenburgh (formerly in the Yorke line of the army) and other reputable men; and the third a copy of certain Hendrick queries and my answers, another copied by Mr Reese at my request, when I was much harried, from a very fair copy draught which I had written for Capt. Hendrick to take with him: a common school boy you will see, would copy more correctly. I
[new paragraph symbol] While waiting for the Indians, I had lodged several days in the same house with him; and as soon as I heard of his endeavors to get into favour with the Indians, I [Undcipherable] [undecipherable]  with a view of getting the appointment of Superintendent if I pronounced him unfit for the employment, for want of capacity, I did not then suspect him of bribery and deception except that bribery, so easy to practise successfully with Indians, at offering treating the dangerous with [men?], or giving it when requested. The deception I refer to was, on the offering to their view & getting [undecipherable]interpreted to them a certificate (as [undecipherable] I had heard it called) to [undecipherable] having) from William MacClan McCay Esq [undecipherable] of the Senators of the U States, recommending him, (as it was represented to me) as a fit person to be chosen by the Indians for thier agent.  & at the next [undecipherable] council, I told the Indians that it was proper for me to inform them, that the agent they had chosen was merely their own agent & not the agent of the United States; and that for any services, he might render them they (the Indians) must make him compensation; or he must perform them for nothing.--Red Jacket then said, as an [apology?] for their proceedings, that he had been well recommended to them by Mr. Maclay; and then he handed me the supposed certificate to prove it. But what was my surprise when I found it they if [undecipherable phrase called) to be a letter, written last May, by from Mr. Maclay to Samuel Ogden Esq. you in which he mentions that Mr. Reese a [undecipherable prhase] as a practical land surveyor, and a gentleman well or sufficiently acquainted with his professions of surveying or especially in rough ground, he had been
answer, he must first call the Chiefs together. I then told him I would read it to him. It was read and interpreted: He & Little Billy were surprised; and said the the interpretation which had been before given to them, had no relation to the contents of that letter!
It was by accident that I heard of Webster's story. I then I was the morning after the Indians had disclosed their choice of Reese for their agent. I took his deposition of the facts: but made no secret of it. Websters deposition. To invalidate it, his veracity was called in question. I then asked Webster if he had not on his arrival with the Onondaga Indians shown me a certificate of his good charater! He produced it & I took the is [undecipherable] copy inclosed.
I have [undecipherable] you this As it is important to keep unworthy men from the I any kind of agency with the Indians I trust you will think this long detail not unnecessary and I transmit it now, less there should be a much zeal & diligence to procure a confirmation real appointment from the President, as had been used to obtain their [share/shame?] the Indian choice.
I am &c
T.P.
