---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 976
collections:
- John Adams Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:55+00:00'
day: '28'
description: Knox describes how he has been sick recently, along with the family of Adams' steward (Knox & family being lodged at Adams' estate outside Philadelphia, Bush Hill, at this time).  Exchanges
  various bits of family news.
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1791082800001'
omeka_image_id: 19898
images:
- 1b78479c1989ddc202c0c386c4e154cb1a4aa03c.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- sick
- house
- letter
notable_locations:
- Bush Hill
notable_persons:
- John Adams
- Henry Knox
- steward
- Braidsly
- children
- wife
- servants
- John Briesler
- Abigail Adams
- Mrs Knox
omeka_id: 41924
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- John Adams
repositories:
- Massachusetts Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Bush Hill
title: Family News, Especially of Sickness at Bush Hill
year: '1791'
---



Knox 1791
Bush Hill 28 August 1791
Mr dear Sir
I am sorry to inform you that your faithful Steward Braidsly has been and still is very sick with an intermitting fever.  This is not the worst of it for both his children have the same disorder and his wife has indications of the same nature.  [We have?] with great pleasure afford them every aid which they  may require. 
I have been confined for some time past with the same vile disorder, as have several of my servants.  But I hope I am surmounting the fever, and experience
the debilitating effects.  
Mr. Braidsly has received Mrs Adams's letter, and would indeed rejoice to pray aready and active compliance to her commands.  I hope however in a week [illegible] that he will be about again.  
[missing text] experience all the gratitude [to you?] and Mrs. Adams for your kindness in offering us to occupy your house during your absence but we have staid rather too long.  We expect however to move into Town in the course of the next week
Mrs Knox some time ago wrote to Mrs Adams which is enclosed but which by some unaccountable mistake has been mislaid until now under the idea of its
its having been forwarded.  
I am my dear Sir with the most respectful and affectionate attachment Your sincere and most humble servant
H Knox 
The Vice President of the United States
