---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 976
collections:
- John Adams Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:55+00:00'
day: '04'
description: Informs Adams that all of the sick at Bush Hill seem to be recovering nicely from their fevers.  Thanks Adams again for the pleasurable stay at Bush Hill, and professes that the Knox family
  will be moving intoPhiladelphia within a few weeks.  Tells Adams that he has obtained a house for Adams' use in the city, though the rent, at $900, is "exorbitantly high," but the only thing available.  Mentions
  an expedition out of Fort Washington meant to deal with Indians.  Tells that the president and Mr. Jefferson are both in Virginia at present, each expected to return sometime in October.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791090400001'
omeka_image_id: 19899
images:
- 76dc5da04c07610e51fbc82b89d577b273186877.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- sickness
- recovery
- fever
- summer residence
- house
- rent
- coach house
- stables
- expedition
notable_locations:
- Bush Hill
- Philadelphia
- Fourth Street
- Arch Street
- frontier
- Fort Washington
- Mount Vernon
- Virginia
notable_persons:
- John Adams
- Henry Knox
- steward
- children
- John Briesler
- servants
- Mrs Knox
- Lucy Knox
- Mrs Adams
- Abigail Adams
- Cox
- Keplies
- troops
- Indians
- President
- George Washington
- Thomas Jefferson
omeka_id: 41950
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- John Adams
repositories:
- Massachusetts Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Bush Hill
title: Relief of the Sick at Bush Hill and Other News
year: '1791'
---



Knox
XVII 162
Bush Hill 4th Septr 1791
My dear Sir
I wrote you last week informing you of the sickness of your Steward and his children.  I have now the pleasure to say they are on the recovery.  He is much better and the children are in a fair train. - Their disorder appears to have been the worm fever, and he participated of the same sort of fever, although evidently mixed with the bilious fever-
The sick part of our family
family consisting of myself and several servants, who have had the intermittent of remittent fevers are also on the recovery.  We shall leave Bush Hill and move into town in the course of the week.  Both Mrs Knox and myself experience the most lively gratitude to you and Mrs Adams for your kindness in permitting us to occupy your house during the Summer, and we pray to accept our sincere
thanks for the favor.  Bush Hill is indeed the pleasant summer residence, but the fact is too well  established by our experience, that from certain causes it is liable to vapours, morning and evening which are productive of ill health and unhappiness - perhaps this year may be singular on that account and therefore in tenderness to his owner one would not wish to speak loudly on this subject.
Mr Cox has taken for you Mrs Keplies house the corner of fourth and arch street.  The situation is excellent and the house tolerably good without having any large rooms but the rent 900 Dollars is extravagantly high - It was however that house or none, for there was not another good house to [rent?] in the City and there were a number of persons after it.  There are no coach houses and stables to it, but they may be obtained
[4 Sept 1791] XVII
obtained in the neighborhood.  
Affairs on the frontier are going on well although but slowly - The troops are about setting out upon the main expedition from Fort Washington and it is to be hoped the measure which are pursuing will establish tranquility with the Indians on the basis of Justice and Humanity.
The President will set out in a few days 10 for Mount Vernon to return about the middle of October.  Mr Jefferson set out yesterday for Virginia to return about
the same period.
With mine & Mrs. Knoxs affectionate respects to Mrs. Adams, I am Dear Sir with great affection and sincerity, Your friend and humble servant
H Knox 
The Vice President of the United States
