---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 525
collections:
- Draper MSS-David Shepherd Papers (SS)
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:56+00:00'
day: '06'
description: Original copy of circular notifying Shepard he was authorized to call up militia for the protection of Washington County from Indian attacks for a span of two months.  The circular requested
  Shepard submit reports and paperwork pertaining to the employment of the militia.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791100600101'
omeka_image_id: 9381
images:
- cc0bfd17b064b9496d991548fafdeb2accea7ae5.jpg
- a21ad5b4c463ecbb412672d8a9329cb22b98daf2.jpg
- 360fc6c5b321f95959148857dc4a507aade701de.jpg
- 2eada607d9fdc69aa002f4df573cda32d097b8b3.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- protection
- evidence of the service performed
- regulations
- appropriation of money
notable_locations:
- County of Ohio, Virginia
- War Department
- Pennsylvania
notable_persons:
- Colonel D Shepherd
- Henry Knox
- Major General Butler
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- militia
- Congress
- rangers
- General St Clair
- regular troops
omeka_id: 42052
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- D. Shepherd
repositories:
- 'State Historical Society of Wisconsin: Archives Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: '[Circular]'
year: '1791'
---



H Knox - Sec. War 
Oct. 6th 1791 
Rhd. Butler's
Arrangement for the protection of frontiers
To Col. D Shepherd
Circular
War department, October 6th 1791.
Sir 
By the arrangement of major general Butler on the 25th of July last, it appears, that you were authorised to draw forth, from the militia of the county of Ohio for its protection against the indians, for the term of two months, unless sooner discharged, one lieutenant, one ensign, and thirty five privates.
As the said term is expired, it will be necessary that the evidence of the service performed, in pursuance of said arrangement, be transmitted, as soon as may be, to this office, and, that the said evidence be precisely conformable to the regulations slated in my letter to you of the 10th day of last March, and that the evidences of any services performed
34 52
prior to the said arrangement with general Butler, and in consequence of said letter of the 10th of March, be also transmitted at the same time, in order that an estimate may be prepared of the whole amounts and submitted to Congress, so that an appropriation of money may be made for payment.  
It is presumed that the operations of the army from the 25th of September will under any further employment of rangers at the expence of the United States, unnecessary, excepting small straggling parties of indians should render a temporary call of a few rangers indispensible.  It is therefore expected, that no charges will be made for any services subsequent to the 25th of September, the period prescribed by General Butler. 
If there should be any appearance
53 35
of danger, some regular troops, who will arrive too late for the campaign under general St. Clair may be employed on the upper parts of the Ohio, for the present protection of the inhabitants 
I have the honor to be, 
Sir, 
Your most obedt. humble Servt.
H Knox 
Secy of War 
To The Lieutenant of the County 
of Ohio, Virginia
232
