---
authors:
- Samuel Hodgdon
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:58+00:00'
day: '03'
description: Inability to transport provisions to men has left them at want of basic necessities.  Contractors immediately requested to transport adequate provisions.  Conquest of Miami town is the goal.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791110336001'
omeka_image_id: 21353
images:
- de0ca9a4075ac1ec1a23eb4a8a85f06f268b0beb.jpg
- 3161d36c5aad69052f446ca13ef3c4655eaa96a1.jpg
- 6cce55d814dfef3e1803b9c8b8c8c26d4ff69c86.jpg
- b5e9751ec6229571dce3c84446e7e3f511ab7cfa.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- special general order
- supplies of provisions
- flour
- want of means
- transportation
- enlarged powers
- rations
- horses
- whiskey
notable_locations:
- Fort Washington
- Miami town
- frontier
- territory
- camp
- Kentucky
notable_persons:
- Isaac Craig
- Samuel Hodgdon
- contractors
- Mrs. Craig
- General
- Buell
- Bailie
omeka_id: 42137
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Isaac Craig
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Fort Washington
title: Lack of Provisions
year: '1791'
---



No 33
Dear Sir - Fort Washington 3d Novemr 1791
I steal a moment to let you know where I am.   I came here under a special General Order, and to perform a very important service - the supplies of provisions were so tardy that before I left Camp, for several days only a quarter of a pound of flour was issued to the men - and the day I came away the last ounces was expended.  The cause was as we all long ago predicted - want of means to transport the provisions.  I was detached charged with enlarged powers and hitherto I have succeeded, so has the arrival in Camp of more than forty thousand rations of flour sent forward on my own horses.  The Army have again
moved and are very probably while I am writing in vein of the object of their original destination.  I hope in my next to be able to congratulate you and on the compleat conquest of the Miami Town.  I expect the horses down from your place belonging to the New Contractors.  I have engaged them a to assist me in the immediate transportation of provisions and I [mean?] to send them on with full loads, the day they arrive.  By my advice Mr Ernest has sent into Kentucky by Express to procure Two hundred more fresh horses compleatly filled to enable him to get on provisions to the Army as their great [missing text} from honer, until Duess con-
tract ends - if these arrive in the time I have allowed - we shall have the means in our hands to compleat the supply until the 1st of January next.  I have employed more than three hundred of my horses in the transportation of the single article of flour.  Whisky is out of the question - their has been none in Camp for a long time.  Make my compliments to Mrs Craig, the General and his family and all friends.  I received your letters by Buell and Bailie - thank you for the care you have taken - shall see one of the days when many matters of importance shall be communicated.  till, then, adieu.  
Sincerely your friend
Samuel Hodgdon
Major Craig
