---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:20:59+00:00'
day: '24'
description: Detailed account of items included on books, despite omissions on invoices and receipts.  Updates on goods transported between head quarters, Fort Washington, and Pittsburgh.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791112454001'
omeka_image_id: 20096
images:
- 9ab21c1cdf4110a9a859b6141628610648c6700f.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- small errors
- pigs
- pigs lead
- receipt
- invoice
- overalls
- regimental standards pack horse bells
- Christmas
- personal safety
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Fort Pitt
- Pittsburgh
- Fort Washington
- Head Quarters
notable_persons:
- William Knox
- Isaac Craig
- Quartermaster General
- Steaven
- Captain Haskel
- Captain Buell
- Colonel Samuel Hodgdon
- Mrs Hodgdon
- General Butlder
omeka_id: 42219
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- William Knox
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Fort Pitt
title: Transport of Goods and Bookkeeping
year: '1791'
---



Fort Pitt 24th Novemr 1791
Sir
Your favor of the 10th Instant I have Received but had not time to acknowledge it by same Post.  I dont at all wonder at small Errors having passed Unnoticed in the hurry of your business which, must at times been very heavy on your hands.  The 25 Pigs lead by Staven you mention came to hand & were Inserted in the Receipt I gave Steaven.  They are also mentioned in my Book, as is also every Article that I have discovered to have come to hand, without Invoice - or to have been omitted in them, but Errors, that may have Crept into Invoices of packages, that have been forwarded unopened, from this Port, I have not been able to detect.  One of the Cases of Overalls that is comeing forward will be opened here presided they arrive before Capt Haskel leaves.  This Post the marks & Contents of which I shall Inform you.  
The four Regimental Standards Pack Horse Bells &c were [missing] ect of Steaven at this Post the 19th of Septemr and forwarded
23
to Fort Washington in charge Capt Buell, 28th Same Month but did not Reach Head Quarters Untill after the Army had marched, Several days, from Fort Washington.
I have had no acct from Coll Hodgdon since the 19th of Septemr, at which time he inclosed a letter to Mr. Hodgden, which I forwarded by the first Post to the War Office.  We are now looking for some of the Levy Officers Returning, as their Six Months must have Expired some time, Genl Butler is Expected here about Christmas, and I think it is probable Coll Hodgdon will arrive at the same time.  
Mr. Hodgdon may best satisfied with Respect of the Personal Safety of Coll Hodgdon, as there is not a probablity of the Enemy comeing to a General Engagement.
I am Sir Your Obedt Humle Servet
Isaac Craig
Quarter Mast Gen. 
Mr. Wm Knox D Q M Genl
Philada
