---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 712
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:00+00:00'
day: '24'
description: Secretary Knox writes that President Washington has directed him to assure Governor Lee of Virginia that he considers the United States responsible for the necessary expenses to defend the
  frontier. Discusses other measures in relation to the defense of the frontier.
doc_types:
- Autograph, Contemporaneous or Certified Copy, Signed
document_number: '1791122400001'
omeka_image_id: 20238
images:
- d26ea83489c19985f8741bd0b9ce6d53411fd1bf.jpg
- ea0fbce8aacc5d39f8e801cd7fdad1095ddacc21.jpg
- 3807fd4806ca6cd8e87a984782b1fa14f9c48d75.jpg
- 7a22fbea8862f9f6d4efcaa021062812ce64331a.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- expense
- defensive protection of the frontiers
- general government
- letter
- employment of the scouts
- Congress
- frontier
- county lieutenant
- defense
- monthly returns
- patriotism
- common good of our Country.
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Virginia
- Ohio country
- Kentucky
- Randolph county.
notable_persons:
- Henry Lee
- Henry Knox
- George Washington
- Arthur St. Clair
- Brigadier General Scott
- scouts
omeka_id: 42310
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Lee
repositories:
- 'New York Public Library: Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Defense of the frontier
year: '1791'
---



War department
24th December 1791
Sir,
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's letter of the 12th instant together with its enclosures, all of which have been submitted to the President of the United States.
The letter of the 24th of November written by your Predecessor was received by the Post on the third and answered on the fifth instant.
The President of the United States has directed me, to assure your Excellency, that he considers the United States responsible for the necessary expenses to be incurred at [undecipherable], [undecipherable] protection of the frontiers. The [undecipherable], which has been ordered by the [undecipherable] of Virginia, by [undecipherable] of the twelfth instant appears judicious and a [undecipherable] as the State the case will admit and that it will therefore be paid by the General Government according to the restrictions stated in my letter to your Excellency of the fifth instant.
It is however to be observed, that the employment of the Scouts, were not contemplated, but as they are considered as essentially necessary, and as Congress have within a few days past made appropriations for their pay on a former occasion, the President of the United States
States assents fully to their adoption. At the same time it is conceived, that the number for the Ohio county are not sufficient, it having such an extended frontier.
The county lieutenant therefore will be permitted to call out a number not exceeding eight, for the said county - and if your Excellency should conceive an additional number necessary to any other county, you will please to direct the same and inform me thereof.
As Major General St. Clair is empowered on this subject, it is presumed he will make an Arrangement with Brigadier General Scott for the temporary defensive protection of Kentucky.
I take the liberty to request that your Excellency would be pleased to direct this that the county Lieutenants make monthly returns to their office of all militia or scouts employed at the expense of the United States.
When the accounts of the Expences, for the defensive protection of the past year, mentioned in your Excellency's letter, shall be received, they will be examined, and the results thereof transmitted to you.
The expences for the Scouts of Randolph county which you enclosed shall be paid to the the order of the lieutenant of the said county.
The President of the United States has directed me to thank your Excellency for your assurances of the ready concurrence of the Executive of Virginia in the
the measures of the general Government taken for the defensive protection of the frontiers. Although this assurance had been wanting he should have entirely relied upon the patriotism of the Executive of which you are the head to support every proper measure for the common good of our County.
I have the honor to be etc.
(signed)
H Knox
Secy of War
A copy in Knox's own hand
