---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 991
collections:
- Executive Papers, Office of Governors Letters
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:00+00:00'
day: '24'
description: General government approved of Virginia's calling up of militia to protect frontiers.  Virginia will be reimbursed.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791122413001'
omeka_image_id: 20566
images: []
month: '12'
notable_items:
- expense
- defensive protection
- pay
- monthly returns
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Virginia
- frontier
- Ohio County
- Kentucky
- Randolph County
notable_persons:
- Henry Lee
- Henry Knox
- President of the United States
- predecessor
- Beverly Randolph
- executive of Virginia
- scouts
- Congress
- Major General St Clair
- Brigadier General Scott
- county lieutenants
- militia
- Governor of Virginia
note: "Cited in Lee to Knox, 01/05/1792.\r\naddressed to \"His Excellency the Governor of Virginia\""
omeka_id: 42311
recipients:
- Henry Lee
repositories:
- 'Virginia State Library: Archives and Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Reimbursement
year: '1791'
---



War department
24th December 1794
Sir
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your excellency's letter of the 12th instant; together with its enclosures, all of which have been submitted to the President of the United States.
The letter of the 24th of November, written by your freelancer; was received by the host, on the third and answered on the fifth instant.
The President of the United States has directed me, to assure your excellency, that he considers the United States responsible for the necessary expense to be incurred, at this time, for the defensive protection of the frontiers. That the arrangement which has been ordered by the executive of Virginia, by their act of the twelfth instant, appears judicious and economical as the State of the case will admit;
and that, it will therefore be paid by the general government, according to the restrictions stated in my letter to your excellency of the fifth instant. 
It is however to be observed that the employment of the Scouts, were not contemplated, but as they are considered as essentially necessary, and Congress have, within a few days past made appropriations for their pay on a former occasion, the President of the United States assents fully to their adoption. At the same time it is conceived, that the number for the Ohio county are not sufficient, it having such an extended frontiers. The county lieutenant therefore, will be permitted to call out a number not exceeding eight, for the said county - and if your excellency should conceive an additional number necessary to any other county, you will please to direct the same and inform me thereof. 
As major general St. Clair is empowered on this subject, it is preferred he will make an arrangement with the brigadier general Scott for the temporary defensive protection of Kentucky.
I take the liberty to request, that your excellency would be pleased to direct that the county lieutenants make monthly returns to this office of all militia, or scouts employed at the expense of the United States. 
When the accounts of the expenses, for the defensive protection of the past year, mentioned in your excellency's letter, shall be received, they will be examined and the result thereof transmitted to you. 
The expenses for the Scouts of Randolph county, which you enclosed, shall be paid to the order of the lieutenant of the paid county.
The President of the United States has directed me to thank your excellency for your assurances of the ready concurrence of the executive of Virginia in the measures of the general government, taken for the defensive protection of the frontiers. Although this assurance had been wanting he should have entirely relied upon the protections of the executive of which you are the head to support every
proper measure for the common good of our country. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect. 
Your excellency
most obedient
and humble servent
H. Knox
Sect. of War
