---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:00+00:00'
day: '29'
description: Details of letters and dispatches forwarded to Cushing.  Overalls sent forward.  Fidelity of Northwestern Indians not to be trusted.  Details of troops marching for Fort Washington. Craig does
  not have the right shot for his six pound cannon.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1791122954001'
omeka_image_id: 21299
images:
- a5ae0ea5eff8734b7562f031ba01a19acb2769c6.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- dispatches
- express
- return of the post
- boat
- ice
- woolen overalls
- shirts
- shoes
- levies
- erection
- work for the defense of the town
- accounts
- sketch of the grounds
- town lots
- garden
- provisions
- application
- garrison
- eminent danger
- six pounders
- shop carriages
- blockhouses
- round shot
- canister
- grape shot
- boxes
- musket ball
- cartridge paper
- musket powder
- cannon powder
notable_locations:
- Fort Pitt
- Fort Washington
- headquarters
- Wheeling
- Fort Franklin
- Philadelphia
- Allegheny River
- Allegany River
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Isaac Craig
- Northwestern Indians
- Indian Nation
- Captain Cushing
- Captain Haskel
- Ensign Miller
- Ensign Andrews
- Lieutenant Jeffers
- Ensign Bond
- John Junior
- John Penry
- Anthony Butler
- Eli Williams
- contractor
- County Lieutenants
- Ensign Morgan
- Major Swan
omeka_id: 42340
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Fort Pitt
title: Letters forwarded, Indian Relations
year: '1791'
---



Fort Pitt 29th December 1791 25

Sir

My last post informed you of Captains

Cushing & Haskel companies having embarked and left this

place on the morning of the 22. In the evening of the same 

day, the post arrived with your letter of the 16 instant also one

for Cap Cushing & other dispatches for head quarters, which I 

immediately forwarded to Wheeling by express, Cap Haskel had

passed Wheeling before the Express arrived. Ens Miller and [undecipherable]

just arrived with part of both companies - Cap Cushing not

come forward to that place on the Morning of the 25th. Ens [undecipherable]

writes me by the return of the post say express, that he is apprehen

sive, Cap Cushings boat is drove on the shore by the ice in the

night of the 24th & has therefore dispatched two men with a guide 

up the river shore with your letters
I have forwarded by Capt Cushing all the woolen overalls

shirts & shoes, except a sufficient number for Lieut Jeffers [undecipherable]

which I have also forwarded to Fort Franklin by Ens Bond of

the Levies who I since learn has arrived safe
I am making every possible exertion for the erection of a
 
work for the defence of the town & stores, accounts just arrived from

Fort Franklin as well as youre aides, urges the necessity of immediate

attention to the defence of this place
By next post I shall enclose a sketch of the grown def

a work that I have judged necessary for its defence, the work must

by erected on a part of eight town lots, the property of [undecipherable] John

[undecipherable] & John Penn. Mr Anthony Butler of Philadelphia is their agent.

The price of the lots 55, 56, 57, 58, 91, 92, 93 [undecipherable] are [undecipherable]
The work is not intended to cover all the eight lotts, but it

takes a part of each & will leave a part of low ground between

the Fort & the [undecipherable] [undecipherable][undecipherable], which will be convenient for a 

garden for the garrison
Mr Eli Williams the constructor has the quantity

of provisions you have ordered for Fort Franklin ready, & only 

waits for an [undecipherable], application has been made to the County [undecipherable]

for that purpose and a party expected to assemble here in a few days

at which time I shall see that the quantity ordered is forwarded.

I have taken the liberty of inclosing copies of two letters dated

Fort Franklin 26th [undecipherable] & extracts of other letters of same date by

all of which it appears that the garrison is in eminent danger

and that the fidelity of the Northern Indians is not to be depended

upon. I am mounting four old [undecipherable] [undecipherable] [undecipherable] on shop car

riages which I have intended for the block houses but have

neither round shot, [undecipherable] nor grape for that [undecipherable], the 

last of the [undecipherable] round shott, being lately forwarded to For

Washington. Bet there is on hand at this place 1458 - 12 [undecipherable]

round shot, would it not be proper to send 2 - 12 [undecipherable] with 

apparatus there is only three boxes musquet ball on hand

one rheam cartridge paper, and only two or three barrels of

musquet powder that arrived here last being all cannon powder.

[undecipherable][undecipherable] of [undecipherable][undecipherable] has just arrived & [undecipherable] that Cap Cushing 

has in consequence of your order, detached thirty men from

Wheeling & that they are on their march to this place, & that Capt

Cushing * Haskel together with Major Swan had gone to Fort

Washington. I have just received your favor of the 23rd instant

I am doing every thing in my power to forward the block house

for the defence of the town. M Swan is now out of reach of an

[undecipherable]. I shall however forward your letter by the first safe hand

going to Fort Washington. [undecipherable][undecipherable]

I am sir,
Isaac Craig
