---
author_note: William Wade
authors:
- William Wade
collection_id: 780
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:00+00:00'
day: '02'
description: Assignment pertaining to a land warrant right, of William Wade, late a soldier in Capt. Ceyles' company in the 2nd Pennsylvania regiment.
doc_types:
- Document Signed
document_number: '1792010290001'
omeka_image_id: 23022
images:
- c84e1228c308a782f3c0152707c8b25d4befe6b3.jpg
- bda9eb697d93124a932b519f9bb3884c7192ba46.jpg
month: '01'
notable_items:
- receipt
- estate
- title
- land
- bounties
- patent
- warrant
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- William Wade
- Captain Ceyle's Company
- Pennsylvania Regiment
- Colonel Hampton
- George Moore
- Board of Treasury
- John Moore
- Joseph Rachenshafe
- George Moore Jr.
- Jonathan B. Smith
- Judge
- Court of Common Pleas
omeka_id: 42354
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- George Moore
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Land Warrant Assignment
year: '1792'
---



Know all Men by these Presents that I William Wade late a Soldier in Captn. Ceyle's Company in the second PennsylvaniaRegiment commanded by Cole. Humpton in the service of the United States for and in Consideration of the Sum of Three Dollars to me in hand paid at the Execution heirs of by George Moore the Receipt when of I do hereby acknowledge, have granted bargained & sold, a Signed and set over, reced by these presents, do grantbargained & sell assign and set over unto the said George Moore his Heirs and assigns all my Estat, Rights, Title and Interest of, in and to certian Military Land Warrant, granted, for surveying to me One hundred Acres of Land in any of the districts appropriated to satisfy the bounties of Land due to the late Army of the United States, and all the Lands surveyed or to be surveyed in pursuiance of said Warrant to have and to holdthe said Warrant Right, and all the Land to be surveyedin pursuiance thereof unto the said George Moore his Heirs and Assigns to solicit and take in his or their Names, and to his and their only use and behoof the Patent to be issued fr the Lands to be returned on the afore said Warrant to the Board of Treasury. In Witness when of I have hereunto set my hand & Seal this second of January in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety two.
Wm.Wade [followed by a drawn circle with the letters: L.S. in the center]
Sealed and delivered in the presence of us
George Moore Jun.
Joseph Rachenshafe
John Moore
Lancaster Countyss Philadelphiy Countyss
On the twentieth Day of Januar One thousand seven hundred and Ninety two, before me Jonathan B. Smith Esquire one of the Judges of the Court of Common Pleas in and for the County aforesaid Personally appeared John Moore Esquire, one of the subscribing Witnesses to the within Instrument of Writing, and upon his solemn Oath doth say that he saw William Wade execute the written Instrument of Writing and acknowledged it to be his Actand Deed. and that he saw George Moore jun. and Joseph Backenstore the two other Witnesses sign their Names as Witnesses Hereunto. and [undecipherable] of John Moore hereto supscribed as witness as of this deponents hand writing
John Moore

Sworn before me the Day
above mentioned. __
BSmith
