---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:03+00:00'
day: '17'
description: Flour to be forwarded now that snow has decreased.  Collaboration with Cornplanters tribe; scouting around Fort Franklin to warn against approaching Chippewas.  Questions on choice of material
  Craig proposed for magazine.  Boat captains ready to descend Ohio river and would like to secure contract for shipping goods.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1792021754001'
omeka_image_id: 21308
images:
- 60e5aecdf4e24994487f128185ab4fd0d8c03474.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- flour
- snow
- supplies
- provisions
- pack horse
- Indian goods
- wood
- brick
- stone
- horse
- clothing
- shirts
- vests
- leggings
- dispatch
- contract
- boat
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
- Fort Franklin
- magazine
- frontier
- territory
- barracks
- river
- Louisville
- Ohio river
- Fort Washington
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Isaac Craig
- Cornplanter
- Chippewas
- Chippawa
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- Sullivan
- ensign
- settlers
- Bond
- Nicholas
- interpreter
- Quartermaster General
- William Crozhan
omeka_id: 42508
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Protection and Building
year: '1792'
---



Pittsburgh February 17th 1792
Sir
On the 12th Instant Ensn Sullivan set of[f] wt his detachment for Fort Franklin, & I suppose by this time has Reached that Port every Effort was made to send a quantity of flour wt him, but could not prevail on Pack Horsemen to attempt the snow they said being two deep for Horses to Carry any burthens, but as the snow has since considerably decreased a large quantity will in a few days be forwarded.  The
The day before yesterday a Corporal & 2 Indians from Fort Franklin arrived with wt Letters now inclosed.  Lt. Jeffers informs me all was quiet there, that he had sent Mr. Bond & Nicholas the Interpreter to Cornplanters Town wt your Speech and that he had still full confidence in the fidelity of Cornplanters, who he says has ordered a number of his Warriors to Scout around Fort Franklin to give notice of the approach of the Chippewas, which he says may be expected.  The Indian Goods have not yet arrived nor any of the the Stores sent forward in Decemr & Januy. I think Sir that such unnecessary delay ought to be taken notice of by the QuarterMaster Genl on the Return of the Waggoners to Philadelphia. 
I have made the utmost Exertion, that the inclemency of the Season would admit of to forward the works, however, I Expect in two weeks from this time to have it inclosed, & the Barracks will forwarded & two of the Block Houses ready for the Guns by last Post I enclosed an Estimate of the Expence, & presume it is unncessary to say that I wish to be enabled to discharge my engagement for Materials & Workmanship as early as possible.  
In your letter of the 27th Ultimo, you mention a Magazine of Wood in preference to Brick or Stone in that case will it not be proper to deviate from the plan & build it near the Center of the work, were it will be more detached from the wooden Materials; be pleased to instruct me in this point as soon as possible.  I have just heard that the Indian Goods will Reach this place on the 22d Instant, they shall be forwarded to Fort Franklin the moment they arrive as I have Horses engaged to Carry them.  
The Indians that come here Ocassonally wt letters from Lieut Jeffers Expect a Compensation - the last that came here was
was almost naked they begged for some Clothing . I took the liberty of giving them two shirts, vests & pair leggins but as it is probable that demands of that kind will be frequent at this post - be pleased to instruct me how to act in such cases.  
The Post is just arrived wt your Packet of the 11th Inst Capt Cass is as Comfortably quartered as he can possibly wish I shall accommodate Capt Baldwin & the Chiefs agreeable to your directions.  The River is almost clear of Ice & Majr William Croghan of Louisville ready to descend the Ohio by whom I will forward the dispatches for Fort Washington. 
I shall immediately make Contracts for the Boats agreeable to your Instructions. 
I am Sir 
Your Obedt
Humle Servt
Isaac Craig
Honle Majr Genl H. Knox
