---
authors:
- James Stewart
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:03+00:00'
day: '29'
description: Stewart has moved to Pittsburgh to establish a dry and wet goods business. He expects the fortifications to be finished by the end of March. He states that inhabitants of Pittsburgh would join
  with the troops to repel an Indian attack. From a letter received from Lt. Jeffers, Stewart has learned that the Indians are likely to attack Fort Franklin early in the Spring, and if successful there,
  more on to Pittsburgh. The recruiting of state troops who are to be under the command of Major McCully goes on well.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1792022980001'
omeka_image_id: 19162
images:
- 0bbd7c87cb38d891b780da804aac9693bad2412b.jpg
- 24409c3ac5b7757a7d16580f5b4b13829723c009.jpg
- 79105a4ed8d7356ae39b07ffa5b6cdd380f17b70.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- dry and wet goods business
- purchasing
- distributing
- fortifications
- weather
- good defense
- plunder
- recruiting
- muster
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Water Street
- Pittsburgh
- Fort Franklin
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- James H. Stewart
- troops
- enemy
- inhabitants
- Lieutenant Jeffers
- Indians
- Major McCully
note: Document is partly illegible due to tearing and decay.
omeka_id: 42543
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Indian Attack on Fort Franklin, Etc.
year: '1792'
---



Samuel Hodgdon, Esqre
Water Street,
Philadelphia.
[From:]
[Illegible]
James Stuart
29 July 1792

[Stamped:]
Received 
from
State Dep't
Nov. 24 1894
R.P.O. 401310
[Stamped in left margin:]
Received
from
State Dep't
Nov. 24 1894
R.P.O. 401310
[Editor's note: Right margin is frayed/torn, missing or implied words interpolated in square brackets below.]
Pittsburgh, February 29,
Sir,
Since I last had the pleasure [of]
seeing you in Philadelphia, I determined on comin[g]
to thi place to settle, and carry on the Dry [and]
wet good business at the [indecipherable]
my best friends. Knowing that you have 
in your power to befriend those who you might [deem]
worthy of friendship, in any business in the line [of]
purchasing or distributing for or to the troops, or
any business which might contribute to my b[?]
I would beg leave to request your aid, when 
[an] opportunity should offer [indecipherable]
The fortifications erecting at [this]
place have gone on but slowly, owing to the inter[indecipherable]
ness [sic] of the weather; but I am rather of opinion, b[y?]
the latter end of March, the works will be so fa[r]
completed, as to admit the army into them, so [that]
we shall have a good defence, against our
[Editor's note: Left margin is torn/damaged so first letters are interpolated in square brackets here.]
[d] inhuman Enemy. The inhabitants of this little 
[t]own are determined to oppose them, in conjunction with 
[th]e troops, as long as there are one of [next word inserted above after being omitted] them remaining.
By a letter received in town from Lieut. Jeffers,
we learn, that the Indians to the number of 500, are
determined to attack Fort Franklin, early in the spring.
[possible word missing] so certain are they of success, in reducing that Fort,
[that] they intend immediately after, paying us a visit, 
where they expect, they say, to have rich plunder.
The recruiting of the State troops, which
[ar]e to be under the command of Major Mibully, goes on
[?}hly. I think there are not less than 100 already raised,
[indecipherable words]conceive whole
will be ready to muster at this place. Exertions like 
[t]hese, will have the strongest tendency towards defeating
the schemes of the Enemy. In any of your leisure
hours, I will be exceedingly happy to receive a few lines. 
I am, Sir, yours sincerely,
James. H. Stewart
