---
authors:
- George Washington
collection_id: 337
collections:
- Samuel Kirkland Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:05+00:00'
day: '25'
description: From General George Washington to his children of the Five Nations. The delegation was invited to impart the blessings of civilization as may suit their condition. Colonel Pickering has made
  the arrangements, which Washington approves of.  Washington ratifies an article authorizing payment of a yearly sum of $1500 for the Five Nations and Stockbridge Indians.  Asks that the word be spread
  that the United States desires peace. Washington expresses hope that the delegation was well fed and lodged during their stay.  He expresses condolences for the loss of two of the delegation, [French
  Peter and Big Tree] during their stay. He wishes them a safe journey home.
doc_types:
- Copy of document
document_number: '1792042590201'
omeka_image_id: 8227
images:
- 5fbec3de9ef33ea9fcc7e40bea32c43757ce8305.jpg
- f6ec8fa00915709ac9307a4cb5869187ca287df7.jpg
month: '04'
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- War Office
- New York
- Five Nations
- Stockbridge
- Massachusetts
notable_persons:
- George Washington
- Colonel Pickering
- Five Nations
- Stockbridge Indians
- Reverend Kirkland
omeka_id: 42637
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Headmen Five Nations
repositories:
- 'Hamilton and Kirkland College: Burke Library'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: President of United States General George Washington speech to the Five Nations delegation at Philadelphia
year: '1792'
---



My Children of the Five Nations - 
You were invited here at my request, in order that measures should be concerted with you, to impart such of the blessings of civilizations, as may at present suit your condition, and give you further desires to improve your own happiness.  
Colonel Pickering has made the particular arrangements with you, to carry into execution these objects, all of which I hereby approve and confirm,, 
And in order that the money necessary to defray the annual expences of the arrangements which have been made should be provided, permanently.  I now ratify an article which will secure the yearly appropriation of the sum of one thousand five hundred dollars for the use and benefit of the five nations, the Stockbridge Indians included. 
The United States having received and provided for you as for a part of themselves will I am persuaded be strongly and gratefully impressed on your minds, and those of all your tribes.  
Let it be spread abroad among all your villages and throughout your Land that the United States are desireous, not only of a general peace with all the Indian Tribes, but of being
being their friends and protectors.  
It has been my direction, and I hope it has been executed to your satisfaction, That during your residence here you should be well fed, well lodged and well cloathed, and that presents should be furnished for your wives and Families.  
I partake of your sorrow on account that it has pleased the great Spirit, to take from you two of your number by death, since your residence in this City, I have ordered that your tears should be wiped away according to your custom and that presents should be sent to the relations of the deceased.  
Our Lives are all in the hands of our Maker, and we must part with them whenever he shall demand them, and the Survivors must submit to events they cannot prevent. 
Having happily settled all your business and being about to return to your own Country I wish you a pleasant journey, and that you may safely return to your families after so long a journey, and find them all in good Health.
Given under my hand at the City of Philadelphia this twenty fifth day of April 1792.
(Signed} Geo. Washington
a True Copy.
