---
authors:
- William Knox
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:06+00:00'
day: '13'
description: Inconsistent actions of Mr. Gish warrant paying back the public through service.  He will transport wagon loads of goods until his debt is paid.  Delivery of good to Fort Washington.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1792041314001'
omeka_image_id: 20775
images:
- d42075633ddb76ee058e9c8702d72e70dbc3a20d.jpg
- 7240a828e47cb27fc41a5dfb805ff8a1cba90325.jpg
- da6987923f7618c708a7b387593319cebcb3b5e1.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- invoice
- cannon ball
- musket ball
- wagon
- debt
- public stores
- carriages
- iron
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Fort Washington
- Pittsburgh
notable_persons:
- Isaac Craig
- Henry Knox
- John Gish
- John Irvine
- James Hamilton
- Samuel Hodgdon
omeka_id: 42733
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Isaac Craig
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
title: Transportation of Goods
year: '1792'
---



[illegible notation- So 47]         Philadelphia April 13th 1792
Sir-     
I received your letter by the Port of last week, I observe what you mention respecting John Gish, he is now [editor's note: see discussion on margin] here and informs me that he left the Invoice you refer to with Mr. John Irvine of Pittsburg who engaged to return them to you immediately. I expect they can be obtained from his house on application. -- Gish has behaved very inconsistent in Several instances before, notwithstanding which I have again given him a load of Cannon and musket Ball, an invoice of which you will receive by the waggoner this I was under the necessity of doing in order to save a Sum of money he owes the public, and had agreed to allow forty Dollars on each Load until the whole is paid, this Load now sent will clear off the whole. I shall in future be more cautious in employing him, as I have but a very slight opinion of his conduct.
James Hamilton is allso gone on with a load of Public Stores- these two waggons were loaded here on the 7th + 9th instant they have four pieces of cannon 6pds + four pieces 3pds the carriages for which are to be
made at Fort Washington the old ones would not [editor's note: writing cut off by the edge of the page] 
answer and were broken up and as much of the iron [w? edge of page] 
would Answer is forwarded with the Cannon.
I will thank you to inform me when Mr. Hodsin[edge of page] 
may be expected if you have heard anything from him[edge of page] 
his family is very anxious for his actions.
I am

   Sir
      your humble Servant
                   Wm Knox



Major Issac Craige
