---
authors:
- Timothy Pickering
collection_id: 337
collections:
- Samuel Kirkland Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:07+00:00'
description: In this speech, Pickering expresses grief over the death of Farmer's Brother's Son. He says he knew the charming boy and Farmer's Brother took him everywhere. Pickering turns to Farmer's Brother
  and says that he mourns his loss of an only son. Pickering goes on to describe the power of the great spirit. Closes by asking to let these considerations comfort his heart and assuage his grief; and
  that he may quietly attend to the business yet to be transacted.
doc_types:
- Copy of document
document_number: '1792049915001'
omeka_image_id: 8218
images:
- e6ab607139eabaddc09c59ed991e50a2ea802850.jpg
month: '04'
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- New York
notable_persons:
- Timothy Pickering
- Senekas
- Farmer's Brother
- Farmer's Brother's son
- Great Spirit
omeka_id: 42768
page_start: '1'
repositories:
- 'Hamilton and Kirkland College: Burke Library'
resource_type: Document
title: Colonel Pickering address to the Senekas and their Chief mourning the death of Farmer's Brother's Son
year: '1792'
---



Coll Pickering
War Dept
to the Senekas
April 1792
Brothers of the Five Nations. Listen to the voice of the United States uttered by me who on this occasion am appointed to represent them.
Brothers,
A second time I am called to utter that voice with grief, for the loss of another member of the Five Nations--the Son of the Farmer's Brother--I knew the boy: Often have I taken him by the hand and often supplied his little wants: A charming boy--the darling of a fond father.--How often have I been the witness of his tender affection?--He would carefully lead him by the hand--place him between his knees--and carry him in his arms. Wherever he went, his little son was his inseperable companion. I viewed with pleasure the parent's doating fondness--and the soft affection of the child, clinging to the parent's breast.--But these endearments are ended; and can no more be renewed. The father will return to his house--he will see the place where his little son was wont to practise his harmless sports--and where, when weary, he used to take his rest.--He will look round--but not find him.--His grief will revive--and again his manly cheeks will be bathed in tears.--Brother! [turning to the Farmers Brother] I
I mourn your loss--the loss of an only son--a son lately the object of such fond affection--a son, who had he lived, might have been to you a staff, to support you when grown old.--But such is the course of all things on earth. The herbs spring up in the field: in the morning they are fresh and green; and put forth their flowers:--in the evening they are withered and dead. The trees blossom and bring forth fruit, some of which grow, looks fair & ripens: while other parts soon perish: either with the tender blossoms, which suddenly wither and are blown away: or in their young, green state they drop to the ground.
Brother,
We are in the presence of the Great Spirit. You, as well as I, acknowledge his superintendency over all things: and, as you express it--"we all belong to him."--and being his, he may dispose of us as to him seemith best. His [underline] wisdom [underline] never wanders from the right way; and his [underline] goodness [underline] knows no bounds. We [underline] can see but a little way: but He [underline] seeth all things: from His [underline] eyes nothing can be hid. He not only hears what we speak, but he knows the very thoughts of our hearts: and his power nothing can resist. But as he is all wisdom, and all goodness--we may rest satisfied
satisfied, that whether he giveth [underline] life [underline], or taketh [underline] it [underline] away [underline]--all is for the best.
Brother, Let these considerations afford comfort to your heart, and assuage your grief: and with these strings let me wipe the tears from your eyes, that you may see and from the eyes of all my brothers here present--that you may all see clearly:--with these let me open your mouths that you may speak--and your ears that you may hear; and remove every weight from your breasts, that your hearts may be at ease; and that so with you may quietly attend to the important business we have yet to transact.
