---
authors:
- E & W
collection_id: 657
collections:
- Samuel Smith Papers, mm 82040469
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:09+00:00'
day: 09
description: E&W reference their contract with the secretary of the Treasury for supplies to several posts.  Describes the supplies available, and the difficulty of transporting meat to the falls of Muskinghum,
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1792050940001'
omeka_image_id: 11009
images:
- 9e5711ce66008f7621a9fe8824fced853652340d.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- flour, meat, whiskey
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Chester Town, Maryland
- Fort Washington
- Fort Hamilton
- Fort Jefferson
- Kentucky
- Monongahala River
- Muskinghum River
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Alexander Hamilton
- Miami
- E&W
- company
- contractor
note: Unknown authors, but letter is initialed E&W.
omeka_id: 42915
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Contract for Supplying Posts
year: '1792'
---



9th May 92
To Genl. Knox
Phila 9th May 1792
Sir
We are honored with your of two letters of the 7th Instt5 and in answer to that which relates to supplies at the recruiting posts we reply, that we are satisfied with the terms mentioned except for Chester Town Maryland which ought to be at twelve cents and at which rate we will proceed to do the business. We find by yours of the 3d [undecipherable] that we are directed to furnish supplies at posts not mentioned in yours of the 7th Instt. It may suffice to say that we engage in the whole business at twelve cents fration for all these places put at that rate in yours of the 7th and also for Chester Town Maryland; and at ten cents for all the other posts not comprehended in our Contract made with the Secretary of the Treasury on the 27th September 1791.
We thank you for yr. intimations respecting the supplies may probably be needed required thro the summer as we shall thereupon make such deposits as will prepare us for all cases of emergency.
our utmost endeavours shall not be wanting to meet The wishes of the commanding Officer in every thing dependant on us.
We have the honor to inform you that we have in store at Forts Washington, Hamilton & Jefferson.
300 thousand rations of flour
250 thousand of meat
An adequate quantity of whiskey for the issues
In Kentucky about 150 head of cattle 
On the Monongahala 2000 Barrels of flour and a large quantity of whiskey.
The other posts have at least three months supplies for the present garrisons.
Our supplies are principally at Fort Washington and the interior posts North of it. our meat is nearly all obtained from Kentucky and the difficulty of transporting it to the falls of Muskingum in case of a treaty the Miami may have the preference, provided there shod. be no material objection
on the part of the Indians. When the price of the rations at the two places is compared it may readily be conceived that the fear of difficulty and disappointment and not mere motives of advantage has induced us to take the liberty of making this request,
We have the honor to be
Your most Obt Servants
E _.V W._.
