---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:11+00:00'
day: '15'
description: Knox discusses the allocation of officers, men, and materiel relative to the impending campaign. The President has ordered the cessation of hostilities against the Indians, pending the outcome
  of peace negotiations, unless the Indians are excessively provocative in their actions. The disposition of the Court Martial of Capt. Taylor is left to Wayne's discretion.
doc_types:
- Recipient's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1792061500055'
omeka_image_id: 22074
images:
- e53001904b79fd1ec6f5583a7decccc28d0b9df6.jpg
- 5fe12e1b70c3961f030747cf84002e9bcdcb9453.jpg
- c9bc286819df1fea70b72e4af13d1a705329b53a.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- Schedule of the troops
- Springer's clothing and equipment
- arms and accoutrements
- five hundred suits of rifle clothing
- same number of rifles
- offensive operations
- a general peace
- Indian towns
- severest punishment
- moccasins
- Court Martial on Captain Taylor
- furtherance of due discipline
- solemn tribunal
- sentenes would appear generally to merit confirmation
- in the meantime, until the efforts of the said [peace] overtures be known, that [the President] in the most positive terms restrains any attempts
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Pittsburgh
- Kentucky
- Bedford
- Point Pleasant
- mouth of the great Kenahwa
- Staunton
- Ohio County
- Fort Pitt
- the Ohio
- Sandusky
- frontiers of Pennsylvania and Virginia
- Westmoreland
notable_persons:
- Anthony Wayne
- Henry Knox
- Stakes Company
- Major Rudolph
- Captains Faulkner, Sparks, & Butters
- Major Craig
- Springer
- Capt. Thomas Lewis
- Howell Lewis
- Hugh Caperton
- Alexander Gibson
- Wm. Lewis
- Captains Crawford and Lowder's companies
- Brigadier General Wilkinson
- one hundred and eighty mounted volunteers from Kentucky
- Col. McDowell
- hostile Indians
- President of the United States
- Lt. Jeffers's party
- Mr. Swan
- Lieut. Britt
- first and second regiment
- detachment of artillery
- Mr. Findlay
- scouts of spies
- Capt. Taylor
note: Cited in Wayne to Knox, 06/22/1792.
omeka_id: 43083
page_start: '16'
num_pages: '3'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Officers, men, and materiel for the Ohio Campaign
year: '1792'
---



From Gen. Knox Secy of War No. 1
War department, June 15th 1792
Sir,
I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 4th inst. I shall enclose you a schedule of the troops, by the next post, who have been ordered to march, & of the those who will be ordered immediately to march to Pittsburgh. They will amount to one thousand - Stakes Company is full and is ordered on.
Major Rudolph, who has arrived will as soon as he has mustered & inspected & put Stakes troop in motion fowards, push on to Pittsburgh, in order to repair to Kentucky.
Captains Faulkner, Sparks, & Butters companies are to be armed, accoutréd & clothed from Pittsburgh -- Major Craig must make the distribution. Springer's clothing & equipment will be left at Bedford or forwarded to Pittsburgh.
It is intended that Capt. Thomas Lewis, Howell Lewis, (Successor to Hugh Caperton) and Alexander Gibson (Successor to Wm. Lewis, should be armed, equipped & clothed at Point Pleasant at the Mouth of the great Kenahwa, of course their arm's & accoutrements will be forwarded to Fort Pitt - but as Gibson will recruit at Staunton it may be that his clothing & equipment will be sent to that place.
Captains Crawford and Lowder's companies will be recruited in Ohio County, and will of course be armed, equipped & clothed from Fort Pitt.
Two Hundred suits of rifle clothing have gone forward to Fort Pitt, and also the same number of rifles - You will please to order Major Craig to distribute them - the rest shall be forwarded as fast as possible.
Brigadier General Wilkinson writes on the 10th of May that a party of one hundred & eighty mounted volunteer's from Kentucky under a Colo McDowell had crossed the Ohio; to act against the Indians, notwithstanding he had informed the County Lieutenants of that District respectively of the pacific overtures and ordered that no offensive operations should be undertaken until the issue should be known. This was brought by express, who is waiting her for further information upon the same subject.
Reports have been brought here of the intention of some of the frontier people, to strike at SanDusky - however laudable this zeal, it cannot be indulged at this time - if therefore any such intention should come to your knowledge, you will in the name of the President of the United States positively [end?] any such intrusion until the efforts of the pacific overtures are known, ad you will please also to write to the County Lieutenants on the frontiers of Pennsylvania and Virginia, as far down the Ohio as the district of Kentucky stating, that the President of the United States, has thought proper to endeavour to come to some explanations with the hostile Indians, in order to lead to such measures as would produce a General peace, and that in the mean time, until the effects of the said overtures be known, that He in the most positive terms restrains any attempts against the Indian towns. But that that this restraint does not extend to prohibit the severest punishment against all hostile parties of Indians, who may be found hovering upon the frontiers.
By the next post I will transmit you the arrangement of companies to the SubLegions.
Lt. Jeffer's party seems to require Mockasons, I pray you direct Major Craig to have them made - You will judge of the propriety of increasing Lt. Jeffer's party, but I believe it will conduce to the public interests to continue him in the command of a separate bevy of rangers. He is on the point of being a Captain It appears from Mr. Swan's information that the money in his possession, together with the money carried on by 1st Lieutt Brite, the paymaster of the first regiment, will pay the first & second regiment, and detachment of Artillery on the Ohio, up to the first of the present month, if not up to the first of July.
Mr. Findlay suggests that the number of twelve scouts or spies for Westmoreland would be necessary - they have now six - if you should be of opinion that twelve is essential you will of course direct the County Lieutenants to order that number.
The President of the United States, requests you will carefully peruse the proceedings of the Court Martial of Capt Shaylor and approve, or disapprove as you may judge most conducive to the futherance of due discipline - as Court Martial ought to be a solemn tribunal, their sentences would appear generally to merit confirmation, unless in case of party prejudices, or other special reason, should render a disapprobation, peculiarly pressing and important.
I have the honor to be Sir, with great respect, Your very humble servt
H Knox Secy of War
Majr Genl Wayne.
