---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:12+00:00'
day: '22'
description: It appears that most of the northern Indians are willing to discuss peace overtures although several American officers were captured and killed because their Indian captors thought they were
  spies.
doc_types:
- Recipient's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1792062200055'
omeka_image_id: 22074
images:
- baf89d871bbe24df7d546e56311b76dd582aa9cf.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- a schedule of the number of troops actually marched
- names of the captains who are to compose the respective Sublegions
- Indian towns and the waters they crossed
- spies
- incursions of the Kentucky Militia
- arms & accoutrements
- Indian depredations
- assemblies at Pittsburgh
- clothing for the old troops on the Ohio
- they made so made so many inquiries of the Indians relative to the distances of Indian towns, and the names of the waters they crossed that their
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Pittsburgh
- Osrie(?) River of Lake Erie
- Auglaize Rier
- Miami villages
- Sandusky
- Staunton
- the Ohio
notable_persons:
- Anthony Wayne
- Henry Knox
- Captain Brant, the Mohawk Chief
- Wynadots & Delawares
- General James Wilkinson
- Freeman & Gerard
- spies
- the Chiefs at Auglaize
- Kentucky Militia
- Capt. Gibson's company
- party of Indians
- Indian council
- Secretary of War
note: Letter No. 3.
omeka_id: 43115
page_start: '20'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Peace Overtures and Spies
year: '1792'
---



War department June 22, 1792.
Sir
I have heard by the post of your arrival at Pittsburgh. I now enclose you a schedule of the number of recruits actually marched; and also of those ordered forward.
As the troops will move forward in small detachmts, it will be particularly necessary to attend to the arrangements as they arrive at Pittsburgh.
I intended to have forwarded you the names of the captains who are to compose the respective Sublegions - But, this must be postponed for the present.
Captain Brant, the Mohawk chief, has complied with an invitation to repair to this city - He is now here; and I hope may be induced to repair to the Omie river of Lake Erie, at the council assembled, or about to be assembled at Au Glaize on that river.
I am informed from good authority that all the Indians have removed from the Miami villages to the said Au Glaize; and also all the Wyandots & Delawares from Sandusky excepting perhaps about four families. It is also said, that Genl Wilkiinson's first messengers names Freeman & Gerrard, have been killed by a party of Indians near the Miami villages. It would appear they were taken prisoners, but in the first instance were spared, on asserting they were a flag to the Indians council. They had proceeded some distance on their way to Au Glaize as prisoners, but they made so many enquiries of the Indians, relative to the distances of Indian towns, and the names of the water's they crossed, that their conductors concluded they were spies & killed them; which was very disagreeable to the chiefs at Au Glaize.
l have been daily expecting further information from Genl Wilkinson, relative to the incursions of the Kentucky militia, and I have kept his express with a view of returning an answer. The express will still wait a few days, & then set off, via, Pittsburgh.
I have concluded to equip Capt. Gibsons company at Staunton; and arms, & accoutrements &c will be forwarded immediately.
The clothing for the old troops on the Ohio, will be forwarded in a few days.
The post, which arrived today, brings no news of Indian depredations - I am anxious your troops should be assembled, & disciplin'd according to the nature of the services. It is however very evident that there will not be assembled in Pittsburgh in any great numbers before the beginning of August.
I am Sir, with great Esteem your most Obedt Servt
H Knox Secy of War
Major Genl Wayne
