---
authors:
- Anthony Wayne
collection_id: 983
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:12+00:00'
day: '22'
description: Will determine the best time and place to muster troops to defend inhabitants of the Western frontiers of U.S. borders.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1792062240101'
omeka_image_id: 19031
images:
- 1377ff44f19f1912b90dce7771dfecf9e6499029.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- muster
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
- Allegheny
- Westminster
- Westmoreland
- post
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Anthony Wayne
- militia
- Lindsey
- Finley
- recruits
- McCollough
omeka_id: 43120
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Muster of Allegheny and Westminster Militia
year: '1792'
---



M-1060                                 No 3
22nd June 1792
to
Major Genl Knox
Secy of War
Pittsburg 22nd June 1792
Dear Sir
I have at this moment recd. yours of the ^ (25th of May?) with new instructions and will pay due attention to every part of the instructions under you have been handed to communicate,-Mr. Findley ^Magistrate Collough of the Trade treaty, and the County Lieunt. of Allegneny & Westminster are now with me-for the purpose of Strike-through text determming where the most [undecipherable](Western?) and economical mode of protecting the Inhabitants[undecipherable]  [undecipherable] Strike-through text Col. Ellison's new Luit. [undecipherable] is very [undecipherable][undecipherable] to borrow every ^ hand of arms for which he will be accountable- Strike-through <s>Strike-through texttext</s> I have named the[undecipherable] for the [undecipherable]  [undecipherable] him that we had Strike-through text [undecipherable] [undecipherable]
[undecipherablable]
and [undecipherable] I did not know what [undecipherable] Strike-through text may have been made for [undecipherable]among the recurits [undecipherable] <s>Strike-through text</s> Major Wm Collough- Strike-through text has sent a detachment ^to examine a walking trail (underlined) supposed to be made by  Strike-through text Indians_At present every thing is quiet-but more attempts will made ^when the [undecipherable]  [undecipherable] about this (three words undecipherable)measures will be taken to talk with some of them (four sentenses are undecipherable)
Your most obt.
Humblist
Anty. Wayne

Genl. Know
Secy of War
