---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:13+00:00'
day: '20'
description: Knox provides a detailed accounting of the assignment and whereabouts of officers and men throughout the Legion and and an account of their progress toward Pittsburgh. Various logistical concerns
  are also addressed with emphasis on ammunition, powder, and horses.
doc_types:
- Recipient's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1792072013055'
omeka_image_id: 22074
images:
- bb8ee83920f2127bd5c5f6aa81f364f2688742c2.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- no signs of Indians on the frontiers
- harvest
- clothing for the present year
- sufficiency of recruits
- Platt's Court Martial
- full companies
- artillery of Fort Washington
- supernumeraries
- clothing, rifles, accoutrements, and ammunition
- injury from the Indians
- possibility of danger on the march
- your troops, rifle, and cavalry
- fine rifle grain
- powder
- sieves
- regulations relative to the receipt and delivery of stores of all sorts
- purchase of horses
- resignation of Capt. McPherson
- intoxication
- proceedings of the Court
- crime of drunkeness
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Trenton
- Massachusetts
- Connecticut
- Philadelphia
- Bedford
- Fort Pitt
- Fort Washington
- Richmond
- head of Elk
- Marietta
- Gallipolis
- Georgia
- New York
- Jersey
- Maryland
- Wythe County Virginia
- Ohio County
- Staunton
- Point Pleasant
- mouth of the great Kenhawa
- Pittsburgh
- Sweet Springs
- Kentucky
notable_persons:
- Anthony Wayne
- Henry Knox
- Indians
- yeomanry of the country
- Capt. Mills
- Ensign Turner
- Ensign Drake
- Capt. Guion's company
- Capt. Rodgers' detachment of cavalry
- Lieut. Davidson
- Lieut. Aylett Lee of Capt. Bowyer's troop
- Capt. Winston
- Major Rudolph
- Brig. Genl. Wilkinson
- Capt. Haskell
- Capt. Cushings
- Capt. Shaylor
- Capt. Buells
- Kirkwood
- Platt
- Surcomb Howe
- Demlar's detachment
- Capt. Hughes and Cass
- Capt. Roberts
- Capt. Hunt
- Bezaleel Howe
- Bradley
- Capts. B. Smith, Doyle, Armstrong, Pratt, Kersey, Peters, Strong, Jeffers, Asheton, Pastnor, Beatty, Pryor, McPherson, Trueman, Kingsbury, Monfort,
- Capt. Sedam
- Capt. Ballard Smith
- Major John Smith
- Ensign Hunter
- Capt. Ford
- Porter
- Pierce
- Lt. Pierey(?)
- Pope
- Capt. B.Smith
- Lieut. Massey
- W. Lanes
- Capt. Brooke Roberts
- Capt. M. Lane
- Captain Edward Butler
- Capt. John Crawford
- Capt. Uriah Springer
- Capt. Wm. Preston
- Capt. Lowther
- Benjamin Lockwood
- Capt. Benjamin Biggs
- Major Craig
- Capt. Howell Lewis
- Captain Gibson
- Thos. Lewis's company
- Howell Lewis's company
- William Preston's company
- Gibson's armed recruits
- Major McMahon
- Major Bedinger
- President of the United States
- Major Craig
- Lieut. William Clarke
- Genl. Clarke
- Mr. Swan
- Col. Sergeant
- Mr. Hodgdon
- Mr. Belli
note: Letter No. 7.  Cited in Knox to Wayne, 07/27/1792, and Wayne to Knox, 07/28/1792.
omeka_id: 43270
page_start: '33'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Legion Organization and Progress to Pittsburgh
year: '1792'
---



No 7 From Genl Knox Secy of War
War department
July 20th 1792
Sir,
I have the honor to acknoledge the receipt of your letter of the 13th instant.
It is highly satisfactory to learn that there are no signs of Indians on the frontier's and that the Yeomanry of the country are reaping their harvest unmolested.
This conduct of the indians cannot probably be imputed to the fear of any expedition, but rather to the effect of the overtures made them.
The clothing for the present year for the first and second Regiments is packing and shall be forwarded with all possible dispatch.  
On its arrival it had better be delivered as nearly at one time as may be, in order, that a judgment may be formed of the care and attention of the respective company officers.
Captain Mills of the Second Sub Legion, a good officer, will march from Trenton by the twenty third or twenty fourth instant, a body of excellent recruits as follows
Capt Mills company.
Ensign Turner's detachment from Massachusetts ... 34
Ensign Drakes ... Connecticut ...                                 25
detachment from Philadelphia...                                 36
[Subtotal] 95

Capt Guions Company ...                                             95
Capt. Rodger's detachment of Cavalry ...                   40 
Total ... 230
This detachment will be joined at Bedford by Lieutt Davidson, with a sufficiency of recruits for the Cavalry to complete Rodgers troop.
As soon as this troop shall arrive at Fort Pitt I pray you to forward them, properly armed with muskets
and accoutrements, to Fort Washington in order to be there mounted.
I hope Lieutt Aylett Lee of Capt. Bowyer's troop is on his march to Pittsburgh with recruits.
I expect Captain Bowyer has a sufficiency of recruits to complete his troop.  I shall therefore order him to march to Fort Pitt immediately.
Captain Winstons is the only one of the Cavalry which is greatly deficient - their number at Richmond amounting at only to twenty three - Major Rudulph has undertaken to raise at the head of Elk thirty recruits for Winston, which with the number he may get himself will I hope compleat his troop. 
You will perceive by the enclosed extract of a letter from Brigadier General Wilkinson dated the 9th of May that there are five full companies of the late second regiment at & below Marietta, to wit --
Captain Haskells - 1
Cushings - 2
Shaylors - 3
Buells - and - 4
the Company first commanded by Kirkwood secondly by Platt, and now by Surcomb Howe } 5
on condition of your approving Platts Court Martial of which I presume there can be no doubt.  
But when Genl Wilkinson speaks of full companies he means seventy six noncommissioned and privates; but now the companies are ninety five each
there will be a deficiency of nearly 100.
Demlar's detachment at Gallipolis ought to be appropriated to make good this deficiency as far as it will go, when I presume there will still remain a deficiency of the above companies of at least seventy.

I presume there are under Captain's Hughes and Cass about one hundred and fifty non commissioned and privates - Suppose one company ninety five deducted there would remain fifty five - this number by being distributed to the beforementioned companies would make them nearly complete.  Captain Cass or Hughes might command the upper company, as you should think best, & the other to be sent to this office to receive orders to recruit.
There would then be seven complete companies of the second Sub Legion with you, the five before 
mentioned Captain ... Hughes or Cass 
Mills
In Georgia ... Captain Roberts
Recruiting ... Captain Hunt - Massachts, Bezaleel Howe - New York, Hughes of Cass - at the place which shall be directed
to be sent on recruiting - Bradley
But by the arrangements of the Sub Legions, Bradley and Surcombe Howe - late Platts are arranged to the fourth Sub Legion.  
By the muster roles of the late first
first regiment, now the first Sub Legion, it appears the respective companies are as follows - 
[Table format: Captain/Sergts/Corporals/Music/Privates/Total]
Captains B. Smith - 4 Sergts, 4 Corporals, 2 Music, 35 Privates, 45 Total.
Captain Doyle - 3 Sergts, 4 Corporals, 1 Music, 60 Privates, 68 Total.
Captain Armstrong - 4 Sergts, 4 Corporals, 2 Music, 60 Privates, 70 Total.
Captain Pratt - 3 Sergts, 2 Corporals, 2 Music, 21 Privates, 28 Total.
Captain Kersey - 4 Sergts, 0 Corporals, 1 Music, 24 Privates, 29 Total.
Captain Peter's, late Strangs - 4 Sergts, 4 Corporals, 2 Music, 65 Privates, 75 Total.
Captain Jeffer's, Late Asheton - 3 Sergts, 2 Corporals, 2 Music, 49 Privates, 56 Total.
Captain Pastuer, late Beatty - 3 Sergts, 3 Corporals, 2 Music, 67 Privates, 75 Total. 
(446) Total - 446.
<uns>Pryor</uns> Pryor, late McPherson resigned
and who filled the vacancy of Trueman - 5 Sergts, 4 Corporals, 2 Music, 44 Privates, 55 Total.
Kingsbury, late Monfort - 5 Sergts, 4 Corporals, 1 Music, 63 Privates, 73 Total.
10 companies - 574 Total. 
11 Martin - late Smiths & Rudulph's } to be incorporated now in Georgia - 95
12 Sedam to recruit his company - 
669 Total
In this view of the Subject - Captn Sedam is ordered to recruit his company - the ten companies will average 57 each, which is a deficiency of 28 men to each company, in all three hundred and eighty.  
Captain Ballard Smith will have about one hundred recruits for the First Sub Legion ... 100
Major John Smith arrived at Fort Washington on the eighth of June with ... 58
Recruits for Cap Kersey under Ensn Hunter ... 21
[Total] 179
Total bt over ... 179
Recruits under Major Asheton 72 deduct for desertion 22 ... 50
[Total] 229
Still there will be a deficiency of 151 which must be supplied by recruits to be enlisted by Cap. Pratt in Connecticut and Capt. Kersey in Jersey, and who will be continued for that purpose.  
The two youngest Captains will now be Jeffers and Pryor, and are therefore to be transferred to the third Sub Legion.  
The artillery at Fort Washington and the other posts of the late Bradford's company and Fords to be incorporated under Capt. Ford ... 60
Porter's under Major Asheton ... 60
Pierces - to be formed of the recruits of Lt Piercy Pope,from Richmond under Capt B. Smith ... } 19
to be recruited by Lieutt Massey in Maryland ... 41
W Lanes in Georgia ... 60
[Total] 240
All the troops in Georgia will be arranged as follows to wit ...
1st Sub Legion ... Captain Martin ... 95
2nd Sub Legion .. Cap: Brooke Roberts ... 95
Artillery ... Capt. McLane ... 60
[Total] 250
There will be some few supernumeraries.  Having thus detailed to you the actual strength of the first and second Sub Legions, you will be able to proceed in
in the Legionary arrangement transmitted you of the 13th instant. 
It may be proper that you should transmit this arrangement to Brigr: Genl: Wilkinson. 
I do not receive any information either from Captain Edward Butler or Captn: John Crawford and very little from Cap't Uriah Springer.  
Pray stimulate them to complete their companies.
Captain Wm. Preston of Wythe County in Virginia who is recently appointed in the place of Capt. Lowther, cannot yet have made much progress - his Lieutenant is Benjamin Lockwood, he is recruiting in Ohio County. 
The money for Lowthers company or originally Capt. Benjamin Biggs's was transmitted to Major Craig who still has it - if Lockwood should want money, pray direct Major Craig to issue it to him.  
I have no returns from Captain Howell Lewis, of Virginia.
Captain Gibson who is recruiting at Staunton has ... 52
Thos: Lewis ... 75
[Total] 127
I have ordered them to march their recruits to Point Pleasant the mouth of the Great Kenhawa- Gibsons Company being at Staunton which is less difficult of access will be armed & clothed.  
But the clothing, rifles, accoutrements & ammunition complete must be transported from Pittsburgh to the mouth of the great Kenhawa.
For Thos: Lewis Company ... 95
Howell Lewis's ... 95
and
William Prestons ... 95
[Total] 285
I shall
I shall depend upon your giving the necessary orders on this subject in due season, and under such an escort to remain with the clothing & equipments until delivered as shall secure them from any injury from the indians.  
Captain Thomas Lewis says he can march from the Sweet Springs to Point Pleasant in six days - when he was arranging the place of his rendezvous he seemed to think he could obtain from his recruits of their own property a sufficiency of arms & ammunition to protect themselves on their march.
But by a Letter of the third of July he seems to think otherwise.  I have therefore ordered that Gibson's armed recruits shall march with Lewis's Company.
As there is a possibility of danger in the march of he aforesaid rifle companies, it would be proper that the clothing & equipments should be forwarded from Pittsburgh as early as possible, so that the escort there may also serve as a protection to the recruits. 
I know not how Major McMahon of the fourth Sub Legion & who is of Ohio County is employed, or Major Bedinger who is at some place in Kentucky about forty miles from Fort Washington - will you please to order them to their duty. 
Lieutenant William Clarke a brother of Genl. Clarke of Kentucky was appointed a Lieutenant of Captn Crawfords rifle company - it is said he has accepted, but no letter has been received from him - on the 26th of April an order was sent to Mr. Swan the paymaster to furnish Lt. Clarke with three hundred Dollars for recruiting if he accepted - recruiting instructions.
instructions were also transmitted at the same time.
As I have no doubt of Lt. Clarks acceptance and from his popular character that he has raised the thirty recruits directed I request that you will direct his clothing, rifles & equipments to be forwarded to Fort Washington; all of which must be deducted from Captn Crawfords proportion of those articles.  
Brigadier General Wilkinson in pursuance of orders given in March has mounted fifty of the regular troops as Cavalry, and employed one hundred Kentucky mounted volunteers as escorts of provision to the advanced post - the latter, at a high price.  
When your troops, rifle & Cavalry arrive, it may be proper to dismiss the Kentucky volunteers - the measure as undertaken is highly necessary and proper - but the expence ought to be suppressed when it can be done consistently with the good of the Service - You will direct Brigr: Genl: Wilkinson to keep up a constant correspondence with you.  I shall answer all the letters I have received from him and transmit you a copy thereof, as well for your information of past events as to shew you that a correspondence is not unnecessarily carried on from this office with an officer under your immediate orders.  
You may relay upon full confidence & candor from me as the agent of the President of the United States - and I shall regard you as the responsible military agent of the public at the head of the troops.
I will endeavour to find some fine rifle grain equally so with the specimen you forwarded, but I apprehend the quality of the specimen not to be good.  
The powder forwarded in point the strength is
is equal to any powder whatever - some of it is fine, and Major Craig has sieves to sort the powder which was first forwarded - perhaps you may find some it sufficiently fine.  
Will it not be best in the first instance to arm a company in the manner you propose, as an experiment - if upon mature experience it should be found superior to the present mode it may be adopted.
In the contest in which we are engaged good marksmen seems to be the main qualification of troops - and in this I am persuaded you will exercise your army so as to make them perfect.
I am sorry that Colonel Sarjent declines the office of adjutant and inspector genl of which I am but recently informed.
This is an important officer and I shall request the President of the United States to make an appointment as soon as may be.
In the mean time it may be necessary for you to appoint some officer to execute this duty pro tempore perhaps as a Brigade Major, until you receive the Presidents directions upon that subject - it may be proper to preclude the person you may appoint to do the duty from all hopes of the appointment so that no disappointment happens.  
The regulations relative to the receipt and delivery of stores of all sorts shall be transmitted to you as early as possible.  
Mr. Hodgdon informs me that a
deputy of his is still doing duty at Fort Washington - cannot be the present Quarter Master General must make instant arrangements upon this subject, until W. Belli shall have finished the purchase of horses.  
P Brigadier Genl Wilkinson in his letter of the 12th of June mentions the resignation of Captn McPherson of the first regiment who has been accused of intoxication.
He also had Captain Platt tried for the same crime the proceedings of the Court are herein enclosed for your judgment theron.
The crime of drunkeness is so undignified & so unsuitable to the character of an officer that it is much to be desired that it should be expelled the Army entirely
I have the honor to be with great respect Your most obedt servant H. Knox 
Major Genl Wayne
