---
authors:
- James Seagrove
collection_id: 362
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:14+00:00'
day: '27'
description: Letter from the Indian Agent in the Southern Department, to President Washington. Provides information regarding actions of Spaniards, which confirms Seagrove's opinion that they act to do
  injury to United States and that General McGillivray has verified Seagrove's predictions of him. Expresses opinion that Spaniards wish to involve United States in war with four Southern Nations of Indians.
  Cites enclosed testimony on oath of James Leonard, once a citizen of Beverly, Massachusetts.
doc_types:
- Extract of Letter
document_number: '1792072790003'
omeka_image_id: 9682
images:
- 6741c432bf4a9ecc89537018430bcaccfb8067c9.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- testimony
- oath
notable_locations:
- Rocklanding
- Beverly
- Massachusetts
- Spain
notable_persons:
- George Washington
- James Seagrove
- John Stagg
- chief clerk
- James Leonard
- Alexander McGillivray
- Spanish
- Indians
- Creeks
note: Extract of a letter.
omeka_id: 43327
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- George Washington
repositories:
- Filson Club
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Rocklanding
title: Subversive role of Spaniards and Alexander McGillivray
year: '1792'
---



Extract of a Letter from James Seagrove Esq. to the President of the United States ..... dated Rock Landing... 27 July 1792.

"Since my last to you which was pretty full on the subject of Spanish and Indian matters I have received many pieces of information all tending to confirm me in the opinion that the Spaniards are acting as
as much to the injury of the United States as they possibly can and that Genl McGillivray hath verified my predictions of him
From every information which I can collect from White People and Indians, there does not remain a doubt with me, but that the Spaniards will if possible they can involve the United States in a War with the four Southern Nations of Indians. Every exertion is making by the Spaniards and undue measures taking with the Savages to stir them up against us.
The incolsed Testimony on Oath of James Leonard who appears to be a man of information and respectable decent manners will explain and open to you  new matter of perfidy in Spain as well as base Conduct in General McGillivray. Mr. Leonard is a Stranger to me and in this Country - his appearance is much in his favor, he is a modest man, of few words, and seems actuated in this information by no other motive but to serve the United Stets. He is a Citizen of Massachusetts and lived at Beverly.
Mr Leonards testimony being corroborated to me by a variety of accounts and circumstances within my own knowledge I am the more readily led to place confidence in it. He is now with me and I have taken much pains in cross examining and sounding him on this information but cannot find him defective or any room for suspicion as to his - veracity. -
The forgoing Extracts written on eight pages, are correctly taken from the originals in the file in this War office of this United States. 
Stagg Chief Clerk
June 20. 1793.
[Marginalia] From official  From James Seagrove the Secty. of War
