---
authors:
- Anthony Wayne
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:14+00:00'
day: '03'
description: Wayne reports a number of unfortunate occurances including many deaths at the hands of marauding well-supplied Indians, illness in a number of soldiers and a lack of medical personnel, and
  a lack of supplies and clothing. He vows that the Indians will pay for their misdeeds.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1792080340055'
omeka_image_id: 22073
images:
- 3543c35a6c93ac7c3588dd7259282b5486173760.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- loss of a sergeant, corporal and fourteen men
- cutting and curing hay
- canoe
- killed
- wounded
- murder
- plain coat
- hunting shirt
- war
- shirts
- clothing, arms, ammunition, and provisions
- massacre
- a very vindictive spirit in the Savages
- flag
- American character
- reports
- honorable or lasting peace
- general monthly return
- general orders
- courts martial
- suits of clothing
- muster
- march
- four hundred and forty suits wanting for those five companies
- forage
- horse
- horse equipment
- transportation of stores
- invoice
- intelligence
- copies
- smallpox
- virulent veneri
- late appointments
- a number of sick in our hospital
- medicine
- medicinal stores
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
- Fort Washington
- Fort Jefferson
- Columbia
- St Vincents
- Detroit
- County of Washington
- Lake Huron
- mouth of the Miami
- river
- Lake Erie
- Kentucky
- hospital
- Point Pleasant
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Anthony Wayne
- Mr. Rosecrantz
- Captain Cass
- express
- General Wilkinson
- Indians
- savages
- boy the only son of Genl. Spencer
- General Spencer
- prisoner
- Vigo
- Major Trueman
- Colonel Harding
- lieutenant of the county
- hostile Indians
- Freeman
- Frenchman
- Captain Shaylor
- Captain John Platt
- recruits
- Captain Thomas Lewis
- Howell Lewis
- William Preston
- companies
- Springer
- Captain Sparks
- Major Clark
- riflement
- dragoons
- Major Hamtramck
- sick
- Doctor Carmichael
- children of the Army
- surgeon
- mounted rifle volunteers
omeka_id: 43363
page_start: '44'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Disease, Indian Raids, and Lack of Supplies
year: '1792'
---



No 10 To Major GenlSuperscript text Knox Secy of War
Pittsburgh 3d Augt. 1792
Sir,
I have the honor of enclosing copies of two letters from Mr. Rosecrantz of the 19th ultimo, and one from Capt Cass of the 27th; in addition to there accounts an express arrived last evening from Fort Washington, by which GenSuperscript textl. Wilkinson informs me of the loss of a serjeant, corporal and fourteen men, who were cutting & curing hay, in the vicinity of Fort Jefferson, by a party of nearly one hundred Indians on the 25th of June: & also that on the 7th of July a canoe ascending the river, to the neighbouring settlement of Columbia, was fired upon by a party of Savages within 3 miles of Fort Washington, by which one man was killed and another dangerously wounded & a boy, the only son of Genl. Spencer taken prisoner: but of these affairs you must be fully informed before this period, as Genl. Wilkinson informs tells me, that he had dispatched an express by land, with letters to you dated the 6th & 9th of July, copies of which he transmitted me on the 12th at
at which time no new recurrence had happened.  The account from St. Vincents, by Mr. Vigo of the murder of our flag, is but too well corroborated by that mentioned in Rosecrantz's Letter, brought by an Indian from Detroit - the officer in all probability was Major Trueman; Colo. Harding as I am informed wore a plain coat or rather hunting shirt.  
The idea mentioned by Genl. Wilkinson in his letter of the 6th of July "that a new tribe had engaged in the war, & that they had recently been supplied with clothing from the whiteness of their Shirts", is also corroborated by a man who was taken prisoner by the Indians, in the course of last summer from the County of Washington, & was lately liberated at Detroit, which place he left some time in June, & arrived in Washington on Monday last, where he was examined by the Lieutt of the County & says that about seven weeks since - or early in June upwards of one hundred canoes, came by the way of Lake Huron to Detroit (now head quarters) in which were about 800 Indians i. e. eight to a canoe; that the Indians were supply'd at Detroit with clothing, arms, ammunition & provision in abundance, and immediately proceeded to join the hostile Indians, at the mouth of
of the Miami or [illegible] river of Lake Erie.  I have not seen this man as yet, but I am informed by a Gentleman of veracity who was present at his examination, that he told his story very strait & very particular.  
The report of the massacre of Colo Harding and Major Trueman, so recently after that of Freeman & the Frenchman, if true & I really believe fear it is true indicates a very vindictive spirit in the savages, who generally revere a flag - can these things be passed by?  would it not stamp disgrace upon the American character, in the eye of the world, were such enormities permitted with impunity?  these reports - and they bear but too strong marks of authenticity, leave little ground to hope for an honorable or lasting peace; should the event be war, by heaven's ! the Savages shall experience its keenest effects! 
Inclosed is a general monthly return of all the troops at this place; together with copies of General Orders upon the Courts martial of Captn Shaylor and Captn John Platt - I have information of two small parties of recruits being near - we have not more than
than twelve complete suits of clothing at this place; nor have we any information of any being actually on the road: - independent of the two hundred & eighty five suits for Captn Thos Lewis's, Howell Lewis's and Wm Preston's companies - nearly sixty of Springers and ninety five of Spark's are yet to be clothed.  Capt. Sparks was here yesterday and says that he is nearly complete.  I have ordered Majr Clark to muster & march the men to this post the soonest possible & expect them in the course of ten days, so that there will be four hundred and forty suits wanting for those five companies: I really feel uneasy upon this business - as the troops ordered to point pleasant will probably be obliged to wait there, for some time, in a very unpleasant situation; in addition to this it is necessary from present appearances to reinforce Genl Wilkinson with those very riflemen, in order to enable him to procure forage at Fort Jefferson, which is an object of the first consequence: as the dismounted Dragoons arrive, I will immediately forward them to him, & direct him to order the Horse to some convenient & safe place on the Kentucky side of the river, ready for mounting; I hope that the arms, & Horse equipments are forwarded
There is however some very reprehensible conduct respecting the transportation of stores &c: many of the Essential articles mentioned in the invoice from the 1st of January, until the 30th of June 1792 have not yet arrived; & not a single article contained in that from the 1st to the 17th of July - what can be the cause?  
Whilst I am writing I am honored with your's of the 27th ulto. with the enclosures - among which is a copy of your's of the 23d No.8 the original has not yet arrived.  
As you do not mention the letter's & Express from Genl Wilkinson of the 6th & 9th with interesting intelligence from Major Hamtramck, I take the liberty to inclose you the copies sent me by Genl Wilkinson, lest some accident may have happened the express; and as it will be impracticable for me to have them copied in time for the post - I pray you to return the same or copies, when convenient.  
We have a number of sick in our hospital; the last detachment brought with them another malady, besides the small pox many of the men are afflicted with a virulent veneri - every precaution
is taken to prevent its spreading; & I mean to say the men under moderate stoppages who have contracted this malady, to be appropriated for the support & comfort of the children of the army - the duty is too severe for one Physician - Doctor Carmichael is the only Surgeon belonging to the army now at this post nor has a single one come forward, out of all the late appointments - do, be so good as to order on a Dozen of them Medicine & Medicinal Stores are & will be much wanting at this post.  The clothing for the riflemen being, only now, ordered on from Phila I am almost tempted to direct one hundred more mounted rifle volunteers from Kentucky, in order to insure the cutting & securing forage at Fort Jefferson - should the next information from Mr. Rosecrantz be unfavourable, I shall adopt the measure.  
I have the honor to be Sir, your most obedt & very Huml Servt. 
Anty Wayne
Honble Major Genl Knox Secy of War
