---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:17+00:00'
day: '07'
description: Knox believes that the Indians might ask for more in the peace negotiations than the U.S. can accept so it is crucial that Wayne's forces be well trained and supplied. All the requested supplies
  have been forwarded and it is necessary that they be used wisely and not wasted. Payment for the troops is being sent with as much security as can be provided.
doc_types:
- Recipient's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1792090713055'
omeka_image_id: 22074
images:
- 01d7a67af2fd62acc109b61d2a46c8479d1e1b92.jpg
- 1ba6402a05b4d5c8daf66a7261a4e1fcde7ccb74.jpg
- 661b54483d22e4f65c360116052255cfa18433e9.jpg
- 88c24da50fceca68e21c2ce25d5aeb40f5a2fc6c.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- pacific overtures
- tranquility of the frontiers
- desires for peace
- a new boundary
- boundaries established by the Treaties of Fort McIntosh in 1786 and Fort Harmar in 1789
- provisions
- necessary buildings
- autumn
- additional pay as inducement to enlist
- discipline of the troops
- supplies to be transported from this place
- magazine of medicines and instruments required by Dr. Carmichael
- supplies at Fort Washington are abundant
- ample magazines of forage and provisions
- fifty thousand bushels of corn
- harvest
- orginal quantity of twenty thousand bushels
- horses
- due economy of forage
- Sergeant
- letter of Governor Mifflin
- waste of money
- protection of the exposed frontiers
- payment of the troops
notable_locations:
- War Department
- frontiers
- Fort McIntosh
- Fort Harmar
- Forks of Muskinghum
- Pittsburgh
- mouth of the great Kenhawa
- Fort Washington
- Kentucky
- Allegheny County
- Bedford
notable_persons:
- Anthony Wayne
- Henry Knox
- hostile Indians
- citizens of the United States
- Capt. Brant
- chiefs of six nations
- Wyandots & Delawares
- Governor St. Clair
- recruits
- deserters
- Congress
- troops
- Major Craig
- Doctor Carmichael
- Cavalary
- Colonel Griffin
- Thomas Gathright
- Captain Ballard Smith's company
- Governor Mifflin
- Col. Neville
- Dragoons
- Mr. Swan
- Allegheny County Lieutenant
- militia
omeka_id: 43543
page_start: '71'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Training, supplies, and pay
year: '1792'
---



No 16 From Genl Knox Secy of War.
War department
Septr 7th 1792
Sir, 
I have the honor to acknoledge the receipt of your letter, with it's enclosures of the 31st ultimo.
Whatever may be the result of the pacific overtures, or however individuals of the frontiers, or among the indians may regard the said overtures, still the Government of the United States were constrained to make them by a respect to the opinion of probably the great majority of the citizens of the United States - The offers being made, me must wait for the issue.  
The tranquility of the frontiers which probably continue throughout the autumn,may be fairly estimated as a consequence of the indians knowing our desires for peace.
By the enclosed letters from Captain Brant of the 26th of July and the chiefs of Six Nations of the first of August which I received yesterday, you will observe the strong impressions relative to anew boundary - It is questionable with me whether the indians received this idea from the hostile indians or from another quarter.  
The
The Wyandots & Delawares who are the tribes particularly affected by the boundaries established by the treaties of Fort McIntosh in 1786 and Fort Harmar in 1789, have never complained of the said treaties, although there were three years difference between the first and second treaty - Brant was opposed to the latter treaty being unwilling to repair to Fort Harmar & requiring it to be held at the Forks of ^[insert]the{/insert] Muskingum had been first fixed upon, and he sent a party there with provisions, and to erect the necessary buildings - as this party was fired upon and obliged to quit the spot, the Governor declined kindling the Fire again at that place - Brant is therefore personally interested to get the line altered.  
confess in confidence, my apprehensions that the indians will require more than we can grant consistently with any sort of dignity, and that therefore we ought to strain every nerve in making all sorts of preparation - of recruits, or discipline and of supplies, to establish such posts as shall effectually accomplish our objects of bridling & punishing the refractory tribes.  
Our recruits may now be estimated at two thousand, exclusive of deserters - if that number with the addition of two, three or, at most five hundred more arrive at Pittsburgh in the course of the atumn, it will be all, which may be expected -- But in the above I mean to include those companies ordered to march to the mouth of the great Kenhawa and which have not yet, nor will they arrive there much before
before the 15th or 20th of the present month.
Whether Congress will order an additional pay as an inducement to enlist will depend upon circumstances, which cannot be estimated at this moment, on this point perhaps much reliance ought not to be placed.  
The discipline of the troops for the nature of the service, will depend on you.  I persuade myself entire confidence may be entertained, that this object will be perfectly accomplished.  
All the supplies to be transported from this place have been forwarded, and you will please to observe by the enclosed statement that all have arrived that could reasonably be expected, some mistakes have been committed by Major Craig in reporting the articles deficient.
The magazine of medicines and instruments required by Doctor Carmichael shall be prepared and forwarded immediately.  You will observe on this head that the supplies at Fort Washington are abundant as will be perceived by your having recourse to the lists you have in your possession.
Your providing ample magazines of forage and provisions were approved in my last of the First instt a copy of which is herein enclosed.
The quantity you mention of Fifty thousand bushels of Corn would appear sufficient.  There will be no difficulty in obtaining that quantity after the harvest in Kentuckey, but this is to include the original quantity of twenty thousand bushels.  
I
flatter myself in all cases you will enjoin a proper oeconomy and particularly, not suffer a greater number of horses in the Quartermaster's department than the real demands of the service shall require, and also that you will not suffer any officers of the Legion to keep horses, who shall not be allowed by law, forage.  
Your Cavalry at best will be expensive and in order to be perfectly efficient at all times a due oeconomy of forage should be observed.  
Colonel Griffin has given me the enclosed papers relative to Thomas Gathright who is enlisted in Captain Ballard Smiths company - this young Gentleman is extremely well connected and has a great passion for the army - his friends request he may be a Serjeant in the first instance, and afterwards promoted if he shall deserve the same.  I state the circumstances, and send the documents, requesting you to state his conduct is he should really merit promotion.
The letter of Governor Mifflin to the Alleghany County Lieutenant is received and the subject will be hereafter duly noticed to you, the date of the said letter is not mentioned pray inform me of it. 
Your information to Colonel Neville was certainly just for it would be a waste of money of the United States to call out militia for the defence of the frontiers, while the public have such a solid force there, but then some of your troops ought to assume the stations proper for
for the protection of the exposed frontiers.  
"I find it will be in vain to depend upon any of the detachments for the season able protection of the money for the payment of the troops up to the first of August.  I shall therefore send it from here under the best security which can be desired, and I request you would detach a prudent officer and twenty dragoons so as to meet it at Bedford, on, or about the twentieth instant."
This information ought to be a profound secret, otherwise bad minded people might attempt to intercept so large a Sum.  
I hope you have ordered Mr. Swan up to Head Quarters, the payments ought to be regularly made in order to prevent confusion, in case of his non arrival the person who shall have charge of the money will be appointed to make the payments.  
I have the honor to be with great esteem your most obedient servt
H. Knox, Secy of War
Major Genl Wayne
