---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:18+00:00'
day: '28'
description: Along with a discussion of promotions and other personnel matters, Knox reminds Wayne of the crucial importance of acquiring accurate intelligence regarding the strength and movement of the
  Indian tribes that may oppose the Legion in a possible war. The location of the winter quarters for the troops won't be determined until the President returns in mid-October but preparations for sheltering
  and supplying the men should be under way.
doc_types:
- Recipient's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1792092813055'
omeka_image_id: 22074
images:
- 65d762b3f79b7b70eaa64efe9ff22c26a910c59c.jpg
- 60a610a80313b5f4f62515f5c67f1015576b08ed.jpg
- fa5f723b1ff3308b91657b77ef497b109940d996.jpg
- 833ffa1f4d252bfe2f6b2bb4161e7bf97a94ec9b.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- first official offer of an Officer's commission
- settlement of accounts
- recruiting monies
- balances against them
- Cornets
- two vacant Cornetcies
- sobriety and the other proper requisites
- Rogers' resignation
- objection to his appointment
- mature powers of mind and body
- increased number of officers
- winter
- final position of the troops
- quantity of forage
- as little waste as possible
- the general aspect of Indian affairs at the southward
- important information
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Detroit
- the Wabash
- Ohio
notable_persons:
- Anthony Wayne
- Henry Knox
- Captain Rogers of the Cavalry
- Lieutenant Mis(?) Campbell
- President [Washington]
- Mr Jones
- Mr. Dunn
- Cavalry
- Mr. Butler
- Sergeant Joseph Richardson
- Sub-Legionary paymasters
- supernumerary officers
- forage master
- Brigadier General Pickens
- Governor Blount
- Enemies
- tribes
- confederation
note: Cited in Knox to Wayne, 10/05/1792.
omeka_id: 43624
page_start: '92'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Importance of Gathering Accurate Intelligence
year: '1792'
---



No. 20. from Genl Knox Secy of War. 
War department 
September 28th 1792. 
Sir, 
I have the honor to enclose you a duplicate of mine to you of the 21st instant, and to acknowledge the receipt of yours/No. 20/ of the same date.
I believe it good policy that upon the first official offer of an Officer Commission is should be accepted.  But a settlement of accounts should invariably be first insisted upon - most of the officers have recruiting monies to account for, and were they discharged with
with balances against them, it would embarrassing for the public in some instances to recover the same - please therefore, to make this an invariable principle. 
Captain Rogers of the Cavalry is about resigning owing to the embarrassment of his private affairs; in this event Lieutenant Mis Campbell will succeed to the command of the troop from every information he will make an excellent commander of a troop. - his services last war, will give him a preference to any other Lieutenant.- The Cornets seem to have no preference by prior service, you will therefore, please to decide their rank either by lot, or such other solid mode as you shall think proper - this will make two vacant Cornetcies which the President of the United States will consent shall be filled by Messrs Jones and Dunn; provided, their probation shall have well ascertained to you that they possess sobriety, and the proper requisites to make them valuable officers of Cavalry. - Some impositions in the appointments of officers induces the President of the United States to direct, that in future the highest caution be observed. -
But you will please to understand that Rogers' Resignation not yet being completed, owing to his account not being closed - this arrangement, therefore cannot be
be definitive until that event takes place but when you send forward Rogers's troop to be mounted, it would be proper to put it under the orders of Lieutenant Mis Campbell.  
Mr. Butler, being only about nineteen years, will be considered by the President of the United States as an objection to his appointment as he has invariably adhered to the principle that the Ensigns should have attained the age of twenty one, the nature of the service requires, that the officers should be possessed of mature powers of mind & body.  the lives of men are of too much importance to be confided to the inexperience of a raw youth. 
I transmit you the copy of a letter written to the President of the United States, relative to Serjeant Joseph Richardson - you will please to inquire into his conduct & report the same.  
Your ideas relatively to an increased number of officers will be transmitted to the President of the United States - but I believe he will not approve the idea of a brevet rank; as he two or three years ago expressed his disapprobation of that sort of rank. - 
It is suggested by the President of the United States that it may be proper to put the
the mass of the troops during the winter, excepting those which shall be destined to form the respective Garrisons of the Posts. the idea is mentioned, that such tools as shall be proper for this business be seasonably provided by the Quarter Master General, if he shall not have a sufficiency on hand. - the final position of the troops will be deferred until the arrival of the President, about the fifteenth of next month. 
It will be important that the sublegionary Paymasters should be chosen by the officers as soon as may be and the President of the United States approves that these be supernumerary officers. - the other supernumerary officers will be deferred until the arrival of the President.  
I believe the quantity of forage you have directed is proper. But it ought to be guarded & ecconomized by the Forage Master so that as little waste as possible be sustained.  
I enclose you the copies of two letters, one, from Brigadier General Pickens and the other from Governor Blount, by which you will see the general aspect of indian affairs at the Southward.  I shall also forward you.  
It is of the highest importance to your
your personal fame, to the success of your future operations and the general interest of the United States that you should be possessed as accurately as possible of a knowledge of the number of your Enemies and of the tribes to which they belong - without a competent knowledge of the nature, extent and strength of the confederation against which we have to contend, we may meet disaster, when danger is not expected. 
You will therefore to the utmost of your power endeavour to ascertain these facts by all the ways you can devise; as well from Detroit or by the way of the Wabash, let the channels be as diversified as possible; so, that by a comparison of one account with another a satisfactory result may be found.  - the President of the United States has recently instructed me on this point and directs, that no pains or expence within the bounds of moderation be spared on this essential head.
I flatter myself, that you, being possessed with the means for this purpose, have already in a degree taken the measures to obtain this important information.  
Please to give a safe direction to the enclosed proclamation of the President of the United States.  
I have the honor to be with great esteem your obedt servant
H Knox Secy of War
Major Genl Wayne
