---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
content_note: Apparently the Knox letter to Hamilton of 11/03/1792 is enclosed.
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:22+00:00'
day: 09
description: Knox expresses satisfaction that the Wabash Indians have agreed to peace and hopes that the talks with the hostile tribes will have the same results although he fears that the Indians demands
  may be so extravagant as to negate any hopes for an agreement.
doc_types:
- Recipient's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1792110913055'
omeka_image_id: 22074
images:
- 1823bf458ec237af7371b5da3303530a42a531f8.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- Subject of Provisions
- continued lowness of the waters of the Ohio
- peace with the Wabash Indians
- state of the river
- place of treaty
- General Chapin's information
- attacks on block houses in Cumberland
- error has happened in the ranks of Lieutenant Lyman and Richard Surcomb Howe
- the certificate herein enclosed
- the President's speech
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Auglaize
- waters of the Ohio
notable_persons:
- Anthony Wayne
- Henry Knox
- Secretary of the Treasury
- Brigadier General Putnam
- Wabash Indians
- Major Hamtramck
- Lieutenant Pryor
- Chiefs
- Quartermaster General
- eight hundred warriors from the hostile Indians
- General Chapin
- Senecas
- the Cornplanter
- territory south of the Ohio
- Cumberland
- Lieuteant Lyman and Richard Surcomb Howe of the Second Regiment
- Lieutenant Richard H. Greaton
- Captain Brant
- the President
- Congress
note: "Cited in Wayne to Knox, 11/16/1792.\r\n\r\nSpans Images 116-118 of this collection."
omeka_id: 43795
page_start: '116'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Peace Negotiations with Indians along the Wabash and Elsewhere
year: '1792'
---



No. 25
From Genl. Knox, Secy. of War--
war department
november 9th 1792
Sir, 
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 2nd instant and I enclose you a duplicate of mine of the same date.
After weighing the subject of provisions required to be in advance the enclosed letter was written to the Secretary of the treasury upon that subject. It it meets your ideas I shall be happy. If you should require a greater quantity I pray a particular statement there of and the reasons upon which it is founded. 
I am sorry for the continued lowness of the waters of the Ohio, as it affects your movements and other public objects.
I hav ethe great satisfaction to inform you that Brigadier General Putnam has effected a peace with the  Wabash Indians as you will more fully discover by the enclosed letters from Major Hamtramack and Lieutenant Pryor-- the Chiefs mentioned in the latter letter will p robably be soon with you if the state of the river permits. I pray your cordial attention to them and that you direct the Quarter Master to forward them on to this City under circumstances of convenience and perfect security against all insults or anger. 
this
This is a fortunate circumstance and will probably attach eight hundred warriors from the hostile Indians. 
General Chapin residing at the Genessee who is nowhere informs me that he has heard through Indians that the hostile tribes were in the beginning of October assembled at Au Claire to the number of three thousand and upwards and that it was probable they would agree to a peace of treaty.  that the Senekas and the Cornplanter were with them and that Captain Brank had also gone forward. 
I hope this said tribes may be brought to a treaty although I am apprenhensive they will  be extravagant in their demands.  But if we can fairly gain an audience I have but little doubt that we shall convince them of their true interest at present, however General Chapins information is too uncertain to be relied on.
The affairs in the territory south of the Ohio are in the same fate the some attacks on block houses in Cumberland have been unsuccessful. 
The Secretary of the treasurey has advanced the Quarter Master General thirty five thousand Dollars and if, the further sum of
of fifteen thousand dollars contained in his Estimate should be indispensible and sanctions by your opinion, it will I presume be also advanced.
It appears from information and examination that an error has happened in the ranks of Lieutenant Lyman and Ricard Lancombe Howe of the second regiment. these were officers of the late war and ought to rank according to the certificate herein enclosed. I am persuaded that Mr. Howe as a man of candor and cordially submit to the rectification of the error. 
There is full something to be investigated relative to the ranks of Lieutenants Richard H. Greaton and Richard Luncombe Howe.
You will see by the presidents speech that a statement has been made of the troops to Congress and it is not improbable that they will take some measures to stimulate the recruiting services.
I have the honor to be with great esteem your obedt. servt. 
Knox
Major Genl. Wayne
