---
authors:
- Anthony Wayne
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:23+00:00'
day: '06'
description: Wayne assures Knox that everything that can be done is being done regarding the defense of the frontier but does not want to overextend, and therefore weaken, his forces. He has met with some
  friendly Indian chiefs and assured them of his peaceful intentions towards them. After a considerable effort, the soldiers are now under cover in preparation for winter.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1792120653555'
omeka_image_id: 22073
images:
- 9b90c20e0c298557a4f9f3889442bc5f2792e46f.jpg
- 937bfabc0c67371b3ee62e0cf96f564bc8dcba9f.jpg
- fb97af2ede3e973f312b0f358c043d562310a3ca.jpg
- 9754fd129213001ed9f709bf053bab461133610a.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- state of the river as well as wind
- amphibious express
- large creeks, mountains, and precipices
- supplies on mens backs
- a march of at least one hundred fifty miles
- Spies or Guides
- Paymaster General's statement of arrearages of pay
- balance of cash
- a permanent peace
- my best interest with the President
- letters from General Wilkinson
- arrests of officers
- various charges, some of them of a highly criminal nature
- discipline among the troops
- insanity
- a confirmed sot
- chain of redoubts and lines of defense
notable_locations:
- Legion Ville
- Pittsburgh
- big Beaver
- Fort Franklin
- Ohio County
- frontiers of Virginia
- Marietta
- Washington
- Yellow Creek
- the headwaters of Muskingham
- Ohio River
- Fort Washington
- Great Kenhawa
- Philadelphia
- Limestone
- Weeling
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Anthony Wayne
- Captain Brady
- Captain Crawford's company of riflemen
- Major McMahon
- Paymaster General
- Major Rudolph
- Capt. Prior
- Wabash and Illinois Chiefs
- the President
- General Wilkinson
- Major Smith
- Major Clark
- the Cornplanter
note: Spans Images 145-148 of this collection.
omeka_id: 43926
page_start: '145'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Legion Ville
title: Wayne Will Not Overextend His Forces; Peaceful Meeting with Chiefs; Winter Quarters Completed
year: '1792'
---



No. 33 To Maj. Gen: Knox - Secy of war
Legionville
6th December 1792
Sir,
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 24th ultimo; which from our change of situation I could not do by return of Post; and as a conveyance by water depends upon the state of the river as well as wind I have been under the necessity of establishing a kind of amphibious express to pass by land or water to Pittsburgh as circumstances will permit.
The Patroles from Pittsburgh and big Beaver to Fort Franklin &ca. have been established more than three months since; as also from big Beaver to Yellow & two Creeks on the N. W. side of the Ohio, covering all the frontiers of Ohio County in Virginia.
But a Patrole from this post or big Beaver to Marietta is rather out of the question: in the first place there are large Creeks, mountains and precipices over which the troops would have to pass that probably have never been attempted even by the beasts of the forest add to this the impracticability of carrying supplies on mens backs, over such ground, sufficient for a march of at least one hundred & fifty miles - the distance from this place to Marietta. to remedy this in some degree I have put the spies or guides of Ohio & Washington counties under the command of Capt. Brady, who, who frequently traverses the Country, from Yellow Creek, towards the head waters of Muskingum and the settlement of Marietta: in addition to this, all the men belonging to Capt. Crawford's company of Riflemen remain at W[h]eeling, about one hundred miles below this place on the south side of the river, under & subject to the orders of Major McMahon, who has heretofore been charged with the protection of the district you mention on the frontiers of Virginia; and who has been out for some time with a detachment of sixty men on the waters of Muskingum.
In fact, everything has already been done for the protection of the frontiers that can be reasonably expected or devised with the force we have and, permit me once more to observe; that if an Army of fifty thousand men regular troops, were strung along the N. W. side of Ohio, they would not be sufficient to quiet the minds of those people - unless you employ their militia.
I have the honor to enclose you the Pay Master General's statement of arrearages of pay due the late first & second regiments up to the 1 July 1792. and of the balance of cash in the military chest at Fort Washington to October.
This, with the documents sent you by the Post before last, will serve as a principle, upon which to form a very near estimate of the Pay necessary for the Legion up to the first instant, with the addition of that due due the four rifle companies who went with Major Rudulph from the Great Kenhawa, and the small detachments that continue to arrive at this place.
Was the Paymaster General on the spot it would not be in his power to give a more accurate estimate than that now before you, in the present spersed state of the Legion: He has however been ordered up the river, but his arrival before spring will be eventual, as he may be prevented by the ice in the course of a few days.
I have now the pleasure to inform you that Capt. Prior with the Wabash & Illinois Chiefs arrived at this place on the 4th instant: they were as well received as circumstances would permit, and yesterday I gave them an audience & a dinner in my marquee for I had no house to entertain them in, the talk & answer were in the usual stile of mutual friendship, anxiety & wishes for a permanent peace &c which you can much better conceive than I express.
Every necessary order has been issued for their accomodation & protection by our City. Enclosed is a copy of a circular letter to the Lieutenants of the several counties; which I am persuaded will have a better effect than a strong armed force: these have been forwarded by express.
The chiefs seem strongly impressed in favor of Capt. Prior; and have requested me to use my best interest with the President to permit him to remain with them whilst in Philadelphia and also to to return with them to their Country - that they feel safe & happy under his escort.
I have letters from Genl Wilkinson as late as the 1st ultimo; when all was quiet in that quarter, except some arrests of officers on various charges, some of them a highly criminal nature.
Major Rudulph had not arrived; but was met by Captain Prior at LImestone. He will be an acquisition to Genl Wilkinson, who (confidentially) writes me that he has not a single officer of rank to assist or countenance him in introducing discipline among the troops that out of three majors, one, is so extremely illiterate as scarcely to write his [underline] own [/underline] name; another (Maj. Smith) charged with insanity, and the other a confirmed Sot. this is rather an unpleasant picture; nor will it be bettered by the promotion of one or two next in rank.
The Solidery are nearly under cover, which has been effected in a very short time by the example & unremitting industry of the officers, who nobly & generously submitted to every inconvenience & inclemency of weather, living (or rather existing) in cold linen tints, until their men are rendered confortable. Our chain of Redoubts and lines of defense are nearly completed; so that in a few days we shall be warm & secure. Major Clark has come in without making any material discoveries. No account as yet from the Corn Planter.
I have the honor to be &c &c
Anty Wayne
Maj. Gen. H. Knox Secy of War
