---
authors:
- P. Brett
collection_id: 871
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers.  [microfilm]
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:23+00:00'
day: '05'
description: London correspondent describes French victories in Europe. Also describes the government response to Republican movements in London. Mentions reform in House of Commons.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1792120540101'
omeka_image_id: 6362
images:
- 4261e0d011eb912547a0bbe159f99ebaf3295c1a.jpg
month: '12'
notable_locations:
- '#10 Gerrard Street, Soho, London'
- Italy
- Ireland
- Perth
- Scotland
- Holland
- Scheld [River]
- Antwerp
- Germany
- Flanders
- Brabart
- Savoy
- Nice
- Europe
- Philadelphia
- France
- Britain
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- P. Brett
- Louis the 16th
- General Montesquiore
- Gen. Maunsell
- Parliament
omeka_id: 43921
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Pierpont Morgan Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: '#10 Gerrard Street, Soho, London'
title: European affairs of state
year: '1792'
---



[Notation in top righthand corner:]4791[?] XXXIII-37
P. Brett-  No. 10 Gerrard Street, Soho, London, 5th. Decr   1792.
Dear Sir,
On the 19th of last month I was favored with yours of the 27
th Sept with it's enclosures which were immediately forwarded. It gave me great pleasure to hear of your safe arrival at Philadelphia, and that you found your brother and all your friends well.
By the last packet I returned under cover to Genl Maunsell[?] a letter directed to you from your brother, which the General sent me by the August packet. Since you left Europe I received a few other letters for you, written by the General himself, which being of no consequence, I thought unnecessary to return.
With respect to French affairs which occupy the attention of all Europe, my accounts of them will be short. That their Republic seems so firmly established, they bid Defiance to all the neighboring powers to shake it. Since the retreat of the Prussians and Austrians, their successes continued in the most uninterupted series. e[?] Nothing stops their victorious career. Flanders, Brabant, Savoy, Nice and great
part of Germany, all fall before them. Wherever their victorious Generals go, they are sure to succeed; they offer the people liberty, and invite them to shake off the yoke of despotism, and form a constitution agreeable to their own inclinations. They do not come as conquerors but as friends to assist them to erect new governments under the protection of the French Republic, and under this idea they are recieved everywhere with joyful acclamations. Being in possession of the City of Antwerp, the National convention has [indecipherable] the opening of the river Scheld; and if the Dutch attempt of oppose it, they are resolved to march their Armies into Holland. This measure messtrouse[?] the Dutch, who will not tamely submit to the destruction of their commerce without a struggle, and a war seems to be the inevitable consequence, in which it is apprehended this country will be involved, as allies to the Dutch, and by treaty bound to prevent the free navigation of that river. This and the the apprehension of disturbances at home, owing to the numbers who have formed themselves into societies, and have taken great pains by seditious publications to propogate the French Doctrine, and thereby bring about a reform on Parliament or
more properly a revolution, have created serious alarm.  Government is resolved to take active and spirited measures to check this republican spirit. Parliament which stood prorogued[?] to the 3d. of January, is summoned by Proclamation which came out last saturday, to meet the 13th. of this month; and the Militia of ten counties by another proclamation of the same date, is to be immediately embodied. The fortifications of the tower are undergoing a thorough repair, and a company of Artillery marched in there in addition to the troops already in that garison; the guard at the Bank, is doubled and temporary barracks are filling up in the Royal Exchange for the reception of troops, to be in readiness, in case of any attempt in that quarter. The [unlegible] loge them with the several loyal associations that acct[?] every day forming to counteract the republican ones, it is to be hoped will prevent insurection. Scotland too, there are some malcontents, who, it is reported, have planted the tree of liberty at Perth, which it is said, was soon afterwards pulled down. In Ireland likewise the catholic cause is
making a great noise, and several Volunteer' corps have been formed. Although all this indicates serious disturbances, yet trust that the parliaments of both kingdoms when they meet will do something to appease the minds of the people. I think even a partial reform of the Houses of commons will produce that happy effect, and I hope in my next to be able to announce this much wished for event.
The fate of Louis the 16th is not yet determined. The [undecipherable] proceeds very slowly on this business, two days of the week only being appropriated to the discussion of the subject. They are employed in matters that appear to them to be of greater importance. At the earnest request of the Savoyards[?] the Convention has decreed that country hence forward to form an integral part of the republic, to be considered as the 04th Department. By the bye, General Montesquiou[?] who conquored Savoy, being accused of defrauding[?] the public by contracts [undec.]. rather than submit to trial, made a precipitate flight and escaped into some place of safety in Italy.  With respectful compliments to your brother, Iremain, Dear Sir, Sincerely Yours  P.Brett.
