---
authors:
- Henry Gaither
collection_id: 825
collections:
- 'Second Congress:  Reports and Communications Submitted to the Senate by the Secretary of the Treasury [2A-F2] (RG46)'
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:25+00:00'
day: '11'
description: Reports activity among forts in Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, between Mr. Seagrove and Major Habersham. Arrived from Fort Fidius and St. Mary's. Discusses paying the troops. Refers to James
  Seagrove, Creek Indian Agent, and Lieutenant Van Allen, and a doctor. Reports on Indian wish to live in peace. Mentions Wellbanks and St Augustine. Reference to General Washington talks, the Secretary
  of War and Major Stagg.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1793011180001'
omeka_image_id: 16953
images:
- 83dbb0e3880d8c7e88b595cf9c21d72d9cf878d5.jpg
month: '01'
notable_items:
- Books
- Treaty
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Savannah
- St. Augustine
- St. Mary's
- Fort Telfair
- Fort Fidius
- Colerain
- Georgia
- Florida
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Henry Gaither
- Indians
- Major John Habersham
- Mr. Seagrove
- Indians
- George Washington
- George Wellbanks
- Creek Indian Agent
- Lieutenant Van Allen
- Secretary of War
- Henry Knox
- Major Stagg
- John Stagg
- white people
- Creek Nation
note: Difficult to read.
omeka_id: 44073
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Savannah
title: Report on Creek Indian Affairs, hostility in south
year: '1793'
---



Savannah 11th Janyr 1793
Dear Sir-
I have just arriv'd from St. Mary's but last from Fort Telfair, Beards Bluff. the first thing after my arrival at hear I had the pleasure of Receiving your favour dated [missing] 12th & 13th Ultimo, the information Therein I am under obligation to you for, and do be these presents promis upon the Honor [missing] Soldier to get out of debt as early as possible, both [missing] self, and the public, as I expect to Receive the two [missing] pay you mentioned, this day from Majr Habersham and will certainly leave this tomorrow provided with the books I mentioned to you was so much wanting and as early as possible after my arrival at Fort Fidius I mean to proceed to the mustering, paying the Troops and so get out of debt. I must beg leave to go back to St. Mary's where I arriv'd the first of Decr and was informed by Mr. Seagrove the Indian treaty was over, but the next day an express arriv'd informing us of the [missing] of Indians Arrival at Colerain about forty Miles up the River St. Marys.
Mr. Seagrove and myself, Lieut Van Allen and Doctor Clayton imediately embarkd and met them furnished with provisions &[illegible] Mr. Seagrove inform'd what he had said to the other Indians of their nation, and what their Answer was, who replyed they ware contented with what was Ageed to by the [missing] towns, and that it was their wish to live in peace and [missing] with the United States and every person else but th[missing] person by the name of Wellbanks was keeping up [illegible, missing] and these was persons from St. Augustine giving them [missing] that they did not know what to do but in [illegible] would receive none but Genl Washingtons talks he always told them the truth, and that some of their foolish young men was with the Cherokees and should never join them again. They wishd to know who I was which induced me to give them the talk I have inclosd you, I have great confidence in what they said and believe if the white people will they may have peace with all the Hostile Indians they require a certain kind of treatment and to be kept at a distance which Seagrove has Allways done tell and said nothing but the truth, and they now call him the Belov'd man.
I will as early as possible give you a draft of Fort Fidius. I shall give the Secretary of War one also, and wish you to write me what his Remarks may be, and that of Majr Hogg who I think much of a Military Man I now expect [missing]thing but my Military abilities and conduct will be strictly examined into as there is a member of Carters about [missing]war office and in Congress which I am confident will do Justice to [illegible, missing] yet I expect to feel the lash of some persons from this.[missing] I am with much Respect Sir your Humble Ser[missing] Henry Gaither
