---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 505
collections:
- MG23 HI1 John Graves Simcoe, papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:28+00:00'
day: '28'
description: Speech informs the Indians that, due to a translation error, the United States government misunderstood the intended location of the next council fire.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1793022800001'
omeka_image_id: 10329
images:
- 92981e63ee447c4636d6d89555bb28d54335c118.jpg
- d45789e4ce30462474842643a6b9bce48f1fa98f.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- speech
- translation
- council fire
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Miami River
- Ohio River
- Mississippi River
- Sandusky River
- Ohio
- Canada
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- John Graves Simcoe
- Wyandots
- Delawares
- Ottawas
- Chippawas
- Pattiwatimas
- Miamis
- Shawnee
- President
- commissioners
omeka_id: 44287
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '2'
recipients:
- Northwestern Indian Chiefs
repositories:
- 'National Archives of Canada: Archives and Government Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Speech from the Henry Knox to the Northwestern Indians on Location of Next Council Fire
year: '1793'
---



82

On Wrapper: - Speech from the United States to the Indians 

*In Simeol's hand <sup>*</sup>Feb<sup>ry</sup> 28<sup>th</sup> 1793
Miamis River 
Sandusky<sup>*</sup>

To the Sachems cheifs and Warriors of 
the Wyandots, Delaware, Ottawas,
Chippewas, Pattewatimas, Shawanese,
and Miamies - and the Head men of
all the other tribes in alliance with
them, to the southward of the Lakes
and North of the Ohio, and East of 
the Mississippi

BROTHERS

When the president of the 
United States consented to meet you next
Spring, at the Rapids of the Miami, it
was under the full conviction that you
had appointed that place, as the one most
agreeable to you, at which the council fire
should be kindled - but it has since been 
found that the Interpreter mistook the
place you intended.

We now find that it is your desire 
that lower Sandusky should be the place
at which the Conference should be held.

Brothers, the United States will 
meet
83

meet you at their commissioners at lower
Sandusky, on the first of June next, of 
which we beg you to notify all the chiefs
and Tribes whom it may concern - And
it is sincerely to be desired by all good/men,
that the Great Spirit might infuse into 
the hearts of all concerned, a sincere
desire for peace and friendship, so
necessary to the happiness of human nature. - 

Given by the Order of the President
of the United States in the City of
Philadelpgia this Twenty-eight day
of February 1793.

Signed H. Huox

Secretary of War, and having 
the direction of Indian
affairs -- / copy
44

Brothers of the five Nations.

Some days ago you delivered your Answer to the Presidents Speech, according to your custom you repeated the principal parts of it, and expressed your thanks for the friendly sentiments it contained, which had made your hearts glad.

You rejoiced that the President considered you as free men and desired you to speak with freedom and then you joined with the president in his wish that all the Evils which had hitherto disturb-ed our peace might be buried in oblivion. 

You declared your belief that this island came from the Great Spirit above - that you/considered Yourselves as in his presence, and that he is the proprietor of us all. 

Brothers,
We your White Brethren, have the same belief; as he <ins>made</ins> so he <ins>governs</ins> the world <ins>He</ins> has so disposed events, that we should meet at this place to consult on those things which may prove blessings to you and your posterity _ We your Brethren of the United States rejoice that your hearts are thus inclined. Many good men have wished to see such a day when the knowledge possessed by the white people might be introduced among you, the nations of this Land _ Such good men have been long searching, but with small success, for a path / by which this knowledge might 
be
