---
authors:
- Samuel Hodgdon
collection_id: 286
collections:
- James O'Hara Papers, BV 1804-1807.
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:31+00:00'
day: '30'
description: 'The Commissary of Military Stores has money by post, believing it to be safest and most expeditious. Secretary Knox is sick. Orderly books have been sent. Reports on commissioners for Sandusky
  talks. President Washington is on a journey to Mount Vernon. Indian goods will be sent. Also comments on revolutions and wars in Europe:  "War now agitates the old world - and the summer will probably
  be a bloody one - America will profit by the Convulsion."'
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1793033015003'
omeka_image_id: 11698
images:
- 436e24cfe1846cb769f90c6b9987cc57bb2eddd4.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- orderly books
- dollars
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Sandusky
- Ohio
- Pittsburgh
- Albany
notable_persons:
- James O'Hara
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Henry Knox
- George Washington
- commissioners
- Indians
omeka_id: 44429
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- James O'Hara
repositories:
- Indiana Historical Society Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Various comments from Commissary
year: '1793'
---



Philadelphia 30th March 1793
Col O'Hara Q.M.G.
Dear Sir
After the departure of the last post from hence for Pittsburgh, I had the happiness to receive yours of the 17th Instant announcing the arrival of my letters and the last Cash forwarded. Encouraged by former success and the information from you I again send another 5,000 Dollars by the Post, still believing it to be the safest and most expeditious Conveyance.  I hope it will go safely to hand.  Your estimate for the supplies of 1793 is receiv'd and will be attended to as soon as the Secretary of War is able to attend to business, at present he is very sick tho better than he has been for some days past.  Two dozen Orderly books are on the road and will be with your soon.  I am with you clearly of opinion that the best of every thing requisite for an Army should be processed, tis true Oeconomy and shall practice it.  The [illegible] mention'd to me an Intimation in your Letter to the Comptroller that all the Vouchers had not come forward with the Accounts render'd, you will please to observe that the Treasury take no notice in the first Instance of any advances made. Full settlement is all they attend to, in future you will forward
only such, others may come in at the close of the business, shall on Monday render my accounts up to that day and continue them quarterly.  I am making provision for the Commissioners, Lincoln and Randolph are expected here next week,  they go by the Albany route and left off the 1st of May.  The President of the United States is on a Journey - Supporo to Mount Vernon - your Indian goods shall not escape me when I find any movement in your Quarter. War now agitates the old world, and the Summer will probably be a bloody one, America will profit by the Convulsion yet the tear of humanity steals down the Cheek of many.  Make my respect to Mrs. O'Hara, and believe me to be
Your most Obt Servant
Samuel Hodgdon.
