---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 345
collections:
- The Isaac Shelby Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:33+00:00'
day: '24'
description: Knox warns that any hostile white incursions onto Indian lands north of the Ohio River must be prohibited as they would endanger the proposed treaty negotiations with the hostile Indians.
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1793042400004'
omeka_image_id: 9624
images:
- c7b131a922c1e121059687a5fe93a9a01dde2857.jpg
- d8309051547c8990bf6cfce2cf17a6a8450011dd.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- Sandusky Treaty talks
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Ohio River
- Sandusky
notable_persons:
- Governor Isaac Shelby
- Henry Knox
- whites
- Indians
omeka_id: 44565
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '2'
recipients:
- Isaac Shelby
repositories:
- Filson Club
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Hostile Incursions of White Inhabitants
year: '1793'
---



War department
th	
April 24, 1793
THE FILSON CLUB
1310 SOUTH THIRD STREET
LOUISVILLE, KY 40208
The President of the United States has particularly directed me to inform your Excellency that the proposed treaty with the hostile Indians north of the Ohio will be held at lower Sandusky to commence about the first day of June next. That during the continuance of the treaty it is of the highest importance to the success thereof as well as to the safety of the commissioners, that all hostile incursions of the White Inhabitants 
into or near to the Indian Country North of the Ohio should be absolutely prohibited until after the Treaty be closed. 
The Commanding General  of the Troops has been directed to force a proclamation to this effect, and the President requests that you would be pleased to take such measures in the
premisses with your frontier citizens as shall in your judgement be most effectual to prevent a measure which might be attended with highly pernicious consequences.

I have the honor to be 
with great esteem. 
Your Excellency’s 
most obedient Servant, 
Knox 
Sec. of War
His Excellency
Governor Shelby
be most effectual to prevent a measure which might be attended with highly pernicious consequences. 
I have the honor to be with great esteem
Your Excellency's most obedient servant
H Knox
Secy of War
His Excellency Governor Shelby
[in a later hand] Given by Mr. Preston Davie Sept. 7 - 1950
