---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:33+00:00'
day: '27'
description: Documents to be forwarded to Chickasaws.  U.S. will support Chickasaws who are currently at war with Creeks.  Governor Blount attests to Creeks being "troublesome" to settlers.
doc_types:
- Extract of Letter
document_number: '1793042700166'
omeka_image_id: 17171
images:
- 3943c90899e3533d0ed8f838a334b027fca59fc9.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- stands of arms
- powder
- flints
- lead
- bushels corn
- vermillion
- whiskey
- tools
- articles
- enclosed schedule
- war
- compensation
- satisfactory and reasonable compensation per month
- boats
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Cumberland settlements
- Chickasaw Bluff
- Mississippi
- Cumberland
- Fort Washington
notable_persons:
- Major General Anthony Wayne
- Henry Knox
- Chickasaws
- Indian Nation
- Creeks
- Governor Blount
- President Washington
- armorer
- Indians
omeka_id: 44581
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Aid to Chickasaws
year: '1793'
---



1793 From the War Dept to Gen A Wayne
Extract of a letter from the Honble the Secretary of War to Major General Wayne dated War department April 27 1793. 
"the enclosed message for the Chickasaws together with the article enumerated in the enclosed schedule, you will send to the Chickasaws as soon after your arrival at Fort Washington, as the articles can be obtained."
"the Chickasaws are at war with the Creeks, who are represented by Governor Blount to be extremely troublesome, to the Cumberland Settlements, and other parts of his government.  but as it is the policy of the Government to endeavour to preserve a peace with the Creeks, the articles now forwarded are put upon the footing of Services rendered to the United States.  
It is presumed that some of the armourers may be found at Fort Washington willing to go to the Chickasaws upon being promised a satisfactory and reasonable compensation per month - this you will please to do." 
"You will send the articles to the Chickasaw Bluffs on the Mississippi, contriving some mode of informing the nation of the time when they may be expected to arrive there - the boats ought to be well manned & well commanded."
"Some Vermillion will shortly be forwarded for the
"the Chickasaws."
I am Sir, with great esteem your humble servant.  
Signed
H Knox Secy of War 
Major General Wayne
Enclosure/s
The following enclosure/s was/were found with this document.  Only those enclosures that were found with the cover document are displayed herewith.  (Missing enclosures may, however, appear elsewhere in this publication.)
Supply for the Chickasaws.
500 Stands of Arms.
2,000 Lb Powder.
4,000 Flints. 
11,000 Lbs. Lead.
1,500 Bushels Corn.
50 Lbs. Vermillion
100 Gallons Whiskey
Armourer and Tools.}
War department 
27th April 1793. 
copy.
