---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:33+00:00'
day: '27'
description: Though the Creeks are a troublesome tribe and are at war with our allies the Chickasaws, current US policy requires friendly relations with them. Stores and arms are to be provided for the
  Chickasaws.
doc_types:
- Recipient's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1793042700155'
omeka_image_id: 22074
images:
- db8eda7e9777a848c5c5e68f8eb6bb059a186c67.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- policy of the government
- peace with the Creeks
- satisfactory and reasonable compensation
- arms at Fort Washington
- boats
notable_locations:
- War Department
- the Ohio
- Fort Washington
- Cumberland settlements
- Chickasaw Bluffs on the Mississippi
notable_persons:
- xxx Anthony Wayne xxxxx
- xxx Henry xxxx Knox xxxxx
- Brigadier Posey
- Chickasaws
- Creeks
- Governor Blount
- armourers
note: Spans Images 189-191 of this collection.
omeka_id: 44580
page_start: '189'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Friendly Relations With the Creeks & Supply of Chickasaws
year: '1793'
---



War department
April 27th 1793
Sir
I wrote you fully the 20th Instant
a duplicate of which shall be sent by Brigadier Posey who is daily expected.  

Not having heard from you by the last post it is presumed that you have been busily preparing for your descent down the Ohio - 
The enclosed Message for the Chickasaws together with the articles enumerated in the enclosed schedule you will send to the Chickasaws as soon after your arrival at Fort Washington as the articles can be obtained.  
The Chickasaws are at war with the Creeks who are represented by Governor Blount to be extremely troublesome to the Cumberland Settlements and other parts of his Government.  But as it is the policy of the Government to endeavour to preserve a peace with the Creeks, the articles now forwarded are put upon the footing of services rendered to the United States.  
It is presumed that some of the armourers may be found at Fort Washington willing to go to the Chickasaws - upon being promised a sattisfactory and reasonable compensation per month this you will please to do.  
The
The arms at Fort Washington which have been [illegible] and repaired ought to be applyed to this service.  There appears in the last returns to be one thousand and fifty three of this discription on hand - but they all ought to be in order.
You will send the articles to the Chickasaw bluffs on the Mississippi, contriving some mode of informing the nation of the time when they may be expected to arrive there. The boats ought to be well manned and well commanded.  
Some vermilion will shortly be forwarded for the Chickasaws.  
I am Sir with great esteem your humble servant
H Knox
Secy of War 
Major General Wayne
