---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 639
collections:
- File II, Georgia Executive Department;  Incoming Correspondence by author to Governor.
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:34+00:00'
day: '29'
description: Governor Blount to travel to Philadelphia to discuss policy for dealing with Indians.  General policy to be adopted and transmitted to Governor Telfair.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1793042900101'
omeka_image_id: 10593
images:
- 613c0a1fbf17f565abf0afe110e633237c999bbe.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- arms
- armament
- ship
- supply
notable_locations:
- Augusta, Georgia
- War Department
- southern frontier
- frontier
- territory
notable_persons:
- Edward Telfair
- Henry Knox
- Blount
- Secretary of War
- President
- Creek
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- hostiles
omeka_id: 44591
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Governor Edward Telfair
repositories:
- Georgia Department of Archives and History
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: General Policy for Southern Frontier
year: '1793'
---



1793
[Monday?]
Indian Affairs
War department
April 29th 1793
Sir, 
Your two favors of the third and eighth instt have been received and submitted to the President of the United States. 
Information has also been recently received from Governor Blount relatively to the hostile dispositions of some of the upper Creeks and the mass of the lower Cherokees and that a War exists between the Chickasaws and upper Creeks.  
Governor Blount alarmed at the posture of affairs has set out for this City in order to concert with the Executive of the United States the measures which shall be adviseable.  
As the business which he will to have transact will be blended with the state of affairs related by your Excellency the President of the United States is desirous that some general principles should be adopted which shall be applicable (as far as circumstances will admit) to the general State of the Southern frontiers, the result of which shall be transmitted to you - 
In
[stamped] Copied from Papers of the War Department 1784-1800.  For Research and Instructional use only!  For any other use, obtain Permission from the Repository from which the source image was drawn. See Guide to Permissions.
In the mean time however the Arms and Ammunit which were mentioned in my letter of the Ninth of March, are now shipped on board the Schooner Peggy, Captain Helly, agreeably to the enclosed invoice - 
A Letter has been written to Mr. Habersham to have this immediately transported to Augusta - 
I have the honor to be Your Excellencys most obedient servant
H Knox Secy of War
His Excellency Governor Telfair
War department
[signature] H Knox 
His Excellency The Governor of Georgia 
Augusta 
Letter 
Sy at War 
29 April 1793
Duplicate 
Arms & Ammunition  
[stamps] FREE; 3 MA; GAr
