---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:38+00:00'
day: '31'
description: Several officers leave for Head Quarters on Kentucky boat.  The water is low which makes slows boat traffic. Cornplanter's nephew brought speech to Colonel O'Hara a copy of which is now enclosed.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1793053189001'
omeka_image_id: 21399
images:
- db627303950236782116c53b04ed4b9f47fd1f5e.jpg
- 93fcd1676f1a705a1cc4ebe56198ff331d72f94c.jpg
- b153c3865aaba228596b26ddc0f3e32166c61a8e.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- boat
- speech
- kentucky boat
- horses
- baggage
- forage boats
- wagon
- packet
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
- Head Quarters
- Kentucky
- Wheeling
- Mingo Bottom
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Isaac Craig
- General Posey
- Lieutenant Andrew
- Lieutenant Harrison
- Mrs. Ann Biddle Wilkinson
- Captain Prior
- Wabash Indians
- Wabash
- Cornplanter
- Cornplanter's nephew
- Kaintwakon
- Gyantwachia
- Colonel O'Hara
omeka_id: 44808
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Travel from Pittsburgh
year: '1793'
---



Pittsburgh 31st May 1793
On the twenty eighth instant General Posey Lieut Andrews & Harrison together with General Wilkinsons lady & son embarked and sett off for Head Quarters on board a Kentuckey Boat Particulary fitted up for their accommodation another boat fitted up for Carrying their Horses baggage & Stores sett off in Company. The Water being low their Horses were sent by land to Wheeling.  Nine forage Boats are now waiting for the rise of the Water, the present Rain I am in hopes will Effect that purpose. Captain Prior and the Wabash Indians are here waiting the arrival of their Baggage, a Boat is fitted up to Carry them but the Waggon that carreys their baggage cannot Reach this post before the 10th of June, in the course of that time a considerable charge will accrue which Captain Prior expects the Quarter Masters will pay.
Cornplanters Nephew and two other Indians arrived a few days ago with a speech address to Colo OHara a Copy of which I have Enclosed.
In my letter of the 24th Instant I
suggested that a supply of money I consider a Necessity of urging that requested again now Pressed for Payment of several large accounts for forage Contracted for by the Quarter Master General together with other accounts the whole of which will [amount] to five thousand dollars. I have just [illegible] yr post a Packet for the commander [illegible] together with several letters for officers at Head Quarters &c. all of which shall be duly sent forward.   The spies discovered the Tracks of a few Indians & supposed to be eight in Number.  They Crossed the River a few days ago near the Mingo Bottom, a party of Militia are now in quest of them.  
I am Sir your most obedt  Huml Servt 
Isaac Craig 
Honble 
Henry Knox
Secretary of War 
Philadelphia
