---
authors:
- William Blount
collection_id: 750
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Manuscripts, 1784-1811. (RG94) (M904)
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:38+00:00'
day: '31'
description: These are Gov. Blount's and Captain White's orders to Captain Beard and his company regarding the pursuit of Indians who have committed murders and depredations on the frontier.
doc_types:
- Contemporary Copy of Letter Signed
document_number: '1793053190001'
omeka_image_id: 12726
images:
- cd1ef0fdb7bb28947db86266d2da10e029bc85f3.jpg
- b0b3b12002693d2d6b73184a3b6ccdd748ff16f5.jpg
- e9d6c1dffd6da419ee044f5b543352cd4f864b39.jpg
- ce197ee8c6058cdbe6f3c138d9f1bb525b0e0a96.jpg
month: '05'
notable_locations:
- Knoxville
- Tennessee
- Tennessee River
- Cumberland Mountains
notable_persons:
- John Beard
- William Blount
- James White
- spies
omeka_id: 44809
page_start: '2'
recipients:
- John Beard
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Knoxville
title: Governor Blount's Orders to Captain John Beard
year: '1793'
---



May 27 1793
Sir,
You will order out 7 men out of your Company and command them yourself as Mounted Infantry for a tour not exceeding fifteen days with fifteen days provision to rendezvous at your own House on Fryday the 31 Inst equipt as the law directs, in order to pursue the Indians that has done the mischief on the waters of Clinch. You will range the Cumberland Mountains, or where you may think convenient; observing not to cross the Tennessee to the south side agreeable to the order of the Governor.  James White 
Capt. Beard 
Note: If any of your men should not be able to furnish provision, you will furnish at the expence of the Governor.  (Copy) 
Knoxville May 31
Sir, 
Since giving you the order to scour the Mountains with fifty men in search of the indians who committed the late murders and depredations on Bull Run and Flat Creek, I have been informed that
that the indians who did the mischief came in two parties and that each made a wide trail  This gives reason to believe that the number is greater than you expected  - I repeat again my order to you to well scour the mountain in pursuit and search of them.  Your chastising them, by which I mean your killing of them will afford me great pleasure.  
I have thought it extremely unfortunate that of the many parties that have for a year past been called out in pursuit of offending Indians none have been successfull.  In you and the men you command I have much confidence, be your success what it will I hope it will be great 
I am Sir Your Obedt Servt Wm Blount
Capt John Beard 
(Copy)
Knoxville 2 June 1793
Dear Sir, 
I received yours I am happy to hear you was as well prepared to assist [blank].  I think it would be proper to find out by the sign whether the trail is gone out or not, if they are pursue
Mss.No.72
11
them immediately.  If not, scour the woods untill yu find they are gone, and then pursue and give them no rest on your frontiers.  A spirited pursuit for the present, may in future give as much next [per] case.  Your former order I consider a good one, which I refer you to
In the course of a day or two you will find out whether they are returned or not, if they are returned be carefull and keep out good spies on the trail, that they may have no advantage of you, and give me a line or two what discoveries you can make on the frontiers.  I hope Sir you will have success and kill your enemies with chearfulness.  Your sending men out on different quarters I will approve of - I am yours to serve - James White
