---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:38+00:00'
day: '14'
description: Remarks on traveling by river or by road to Wheeling.  Safety of each mode of transportation discussed.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1793061454001'
omeka_image_id: 21402
images:
- a58b16fe3980c4c8958ee17b261cf64064624fed.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- dispatches
- great danger
- road
- wagons
- stockade
- attacked
- board
- riding horses
- horses
- bar iron
- steel
- forage
- articles
- invoice
- bales
- Indian goods
- baggage
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Pittsburgh
- river
- Fort Washington
- Wheeling
- frontier
- Ohio River
- rapids
- Shippensburgh
- Shippensburg
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Isaac Craig
- Commander in Chief
- Indians
- pilot
- Governor Arthur St. Clair
- Captain Prior
- Thomas martin
note: Cited in Knox to Craig, 07/05/1793.
omeka_id: 44881
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Travel Safety
year: '1793'
---



Pittsburgh 11th June 1793
I have Received your letter of the 7th Instant, together wt dispatches for the Commander in Chief, which shall be forwarded immediately in the Manner you direct, and as the River is at present very high, his letter will Reach Fort Washington in four days. 
I believe there is a great danger to be apprehended on the Road that Waggons must take to Wheeling, as on any other part of the Frontiers. 
A small Stockade, at that place, into which the Inhabitants have sometimes Retired, has several times been attacked, by parties of Indians, but has never been taken.  I shall by the next Post inform you of the number and Capacity of the Buildings, and of the Population in that Neighbourhood.  
The Navigation of the Ohio, is not materially better from Wheeling, than from PIttsburgh in a dry Season, & our best Ohio PIlots say they find nearly the same difficulty, till they pass the Rapids below [Little Kanawha?]  in [illegible]  We have found that more
accidents have happened to Boats, and the loss [*tained], below Wheeling, than above.  
I am not preparing and shall send off tomorrow two Boats, having on Board, two Waggons, one Cart, Eight Waggon & Six Riding Horses, One & Half Tons Bar Iron, four hundred pounds Steel, a quantity of forage and sundry other articles.  A copy of the Invoice shall by sent by the next Post. 
Governor St. Clair has directed me to have a Boat filled up to carry him to Fort Washington, he intends to sett off on the 22d Instant.   
Four Bales of the Indian Goods are come to hand.  Capt. Prior is still waiting for the arrival of his Baggage, it is said that Thomas Martin Waggon who took Charge of the Indian Baggage has stopped in Shippensburgh.  I have had no communication from Head Quarters since last Post, but hourly expect our Express Boat.  
I am Sir with great Respect Your Very Obedt Humble Servt 
Isaac Craig
Majr Genl Henry Knox
Secretary of War
