---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:41+00:00'
day: '25'
description: Discusses navigation of Ohio River, population of Wheeling, Virginia [now West Virginia]. Mentions great danger on the road to Wheeling due to Indians. Has prepared tools for erecting buildings
  at Wheeling. Mentions sending stores to Buffaloe Creek.  Mentions commissioner's instructions for purchasing Wampum. Says that the land jobbing business is permitted at a very unreasonable time, while
  Treaty is pending.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1793062554001'
omeka_image_id: 21404
images:
- f3a7e465b4b94075decb2ba8c9119bc9d11e6e6a.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- buildings
- timber
- tools
- wampum
- wagon
- waggon
- boat
- expenses
- store house
- land carriage
- account of charges
- land jobbing
- treaty
- invoice of stores received
- general return of stores
- abstract of disbursements
- Indians goods
- hospital stores
- grain
- packet
- post notes
- baggage
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Pittsburgh
- Virginia
- Wheeling
- Buffalo Creek
- Niagara
- Alleghany River
- Ohio River
- frontiers
- Headquarters
- Allegheny River
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Isaac Craig
- Indians
- wampum
- General Anthony Wayne
- Captain Melcher
- Seneca
- Commissioners
- Governor Mifflin
- Captain Prior
- Commander in Chief
- William Knox
omeka_id: 44953
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Navigation of Ohio River and Construction at Wheeling
year: '1793'
---



Pittsburgh [illegible] June 1793
Sir
As last Post, arrived late in the Evening, and set off after a very short stay same night I had not then an opportunity of obtaining the necessary information required in your letter, Respecting the Navigation of the Ohio.  Population in the vicinity, of Wheeling &c.  I have since Received answers to Queries (Similar to those in your letters from two Gentlemen of veracity, and information, which I now take the liberty of inclosing.  I have also been assured by several others that the danger to be apprehend from Hostile Indians, is as great on upwards of twenty miles, of the Road, that Waggons must take to Wheeling, as on any other part of our Frontiers.
I have prepared the necessary Tools for Erecting the Buildings at Wheeling, the Country in the vicinity of that place, is badly timbered, and most of that, that was fit for building has been cut down, therefore Building Timber must be brought a Considerable distance which will greatly increase the Expences.  
I apprehend that by sending the Stores directly to the Mouth of Buffaloe Creek, every purpose might be [illegible] that could possibly be by Sending them
[to take along?] [illegible] a Considerable saving made, as there is already there, an Excellent landing & Store House, which I presume can be obtained at a Reasonable Rate, fifteen or Eighteen mile land carriage would be saved, and less danger from the Enemy in approaching Buffaloe than Wheeling, as the Population is greater.  
Timber & other Materials for Building can be readily procured at that place. 
Captain Melcher set off for Head Quarters on the Morning of the 15th Instant, Charged [with] the dispatches for General Wayne, put up in the manner you directed, loaded with lead, and delivered to him [with] particular Instructions, not to suffer them to fall into the Enemies hand, he has nine good Men with him well armed.  
I have inclosed the Commissioners instructions, for drawing on you for the amount of Wampum purchased and sent to Niagara, the Acct of the Wampum purchased is also inclosed, accompanied with three Acct of Charges, that have Accrued in Consequent of the Arrival of the Seneca Indians from the Commissioners, be pleased either to Remit the Amount of the four Accts Viz Two hundred and Ninety Seven Dollars & twenty nine cents, or the Amount of the Wampum only, & Return the other three Accts in order that they may be entered in my Abstract of [remainder illegible]
Pennsylvania from [illegible] the Lands vacant West of the Allegheny River, in Consequence of which great Numbers of People [armed?] are now Extended to the utmost limits of the State, surveying and marking Lands. Several of those People have Announced their Intentions of putting to death all the Indians that they may find whether Seneca or others.  
This land jobbing business is permitted at a very unreasonable time, whilst the Treaty is Pending, it certainly would have been prudent of Governor Mifflen to have Restrained these People till after the Treaty.  
Inclosed in an Invoice of the Stores Received since last post. General Returns of Stores, together with an Abstract of Disbursements is preparing and shall be sent forward at the end of the Month.  
Four Bales of Indian Goods and some Hospital Stores, arrived without Invoices.  
Two Waggons are just arrived with Stores but not yet unloaded, I believe they bring part of the Indian Goods.  Two Boats to Carry Grain from Buffalo will set off tomorrow, two more will set off on Tuesday next, these four will carry all that is purchased Vizt 1000 Bushels. 
In addition to the Wampum purchased [illegible] ten thousand of Capt Prior, which I have
promised to Replace, as is soon as possible.  
I have just Received your favor of the 11th Instant, together with a Packet, for the Commander in Chief and letter for Officers at Head Quarters, which shall be forward on the 24th.  I have also Received a letter from Mr. Willm Knox, accompanied with a Packet containing five thousand Dollars in Post Notes, a Packet containing Wampum, and a letter for Capt Prior is also come to hand, and delivered to him, he is still here waiting for the remainder of his Baggage, part of it having arrived, and part still on the Road. the Indians seem very impatient to be gone.  
The River is still sufficiently high, for any craft whatever, and by the late Rains, must use considerably, indeed from present appearance it is probable that no difficulty can occur in the Navigation of the Ohio before the 1st of August, & perhaps not then, as has been, and continues to be a Remarkable Wet Season.  I shall however advise you weekly of the State of the River. 
I am Sir Your Most Obedt Humble Servt 
Isaac Craig
Honble
Majr General Henry Knox
Secretary of War 
Philadelphia
