---
authors:
- Timothy Pickering
collection_id: 260
collections:
- Timothy Pickering Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:41+00:00'
day: '26'
description: Reports that interpreter Jasper Parrish arrived with letter. Reports on travels, mentioning Fort Erie, Sandusky. Indians assembled at rapids of Miami of the Lake.  Communication by post to
  Niagara not yet established.  Indians have heard that General Wayne has advanced as far as great plains of Miami. Expects such tales, some void of truth, to be common during Treaty. There are villains
  of all colors, who may wish to frustrate proceedings. Mentions events in France.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1793062670001'
omeka_image_id: 13846
images:
- 88f60469b5f061171373eb062ee9e2d426cf92d8.jpg
month: '06'
notable_locations:
- Niagara
- Sandusky
- Williamsburg on  Geneseo
- New York
- Long Island
- Great Plains
- France
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Timothy Pickering
- Benjamin Lincoln
- Captain Williamson
- contractor
- Anthony Wayne
- National Assembly of France
- Robespierre
- Therriot
- Benjamin Lincoln
omeka_id: 44959
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- 'Buffalo and Erie County Historical Society: Iconography Department'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Niagara
title: Reports on treaty efforts at Sandusky; events in France
year: '1793'
---



Dear Sir,
Niagara June, 26 1793
Yesterday Parrish arrived with your letter of the 8th J 12th for which I thank you.
Today we expect to leave this place, on our way to Fort Erie (36 miles off) where we shall embark for Sandusky.  Avesid his ready to receive us. It will be some time in July before the treaty can begin.  On the 14th instant the Indians assembled at the Rapids of the Miami of the Lake had but just  begun to counsel among themselves  ; and they [undecipherable] waiting for the Six Nations who [undecipherable] just now [undecipherable] from for Erie however, they may be at the Missouri in five or six days.  It will [undecipherable] take the Indians four days to travel from thence to Sandusky, after their private councils are ended.  From the data and the
the usual journey of Indian proceedings, you may form some conjecture of the length of the treaty. I forget what time"you allotted."
the Communication by [undecipherable] to Niagara is not yet established: it was not even fixed as far as Williamsburg on Geneseo. Capt. Williamson, the Contractor, had not been able to open the road & make his stations so soon as he had expected: they were however shortly to be done.  Then he proposed to come here to agree on its extension from Genesco to Niagara. [undecipherable] manufactured in the  State of New York . Parish went to the city of New York for a full supply which luckily was obtained by the arrival of of a quantity from Long Island.
Island as he informed, but the day before.
I do not look for another conveyance to Philadelphia during the continuance of the treaty.  The Indians have headed for Miami Rapids thus General Wayne has advanced as far as the Great Plains of the Miami of the Ohio. I do not know nor does anybody here [undecipherable], where those plains are. The story may be void of truth but I expect their ears will be filled with such tales during the whole of the treaty.  There are villains of all colours who may wish to [undecipherable] by any means.
I have [undecipherable] papers brought by Parrish.  I am afraid the "[undecipherable]" of the National assembly of France is but the despairing obstinacy of men who have committed too many outrages on humanity to hope for forgiveness even from their own countrymen.
countrymen when returned to their sober senses.  While such sanguinary execrable wretches as [undecipherable] and
Therriot [undecipherable] to the [undecipherable], no real good is to be hoped for.  The latter, [undecipherable] [undecipherable] the blood of a  hundred thousand  more of his fellow citizens; traitors as he would call them and [undecipherable] be [undecipherable]! Such are the discontents such the sufferings [undecipherable] anarchy, apparently [undecipherable] , that I can hope for nothing without a restoration of the constitution [undecipherable] by the [undecipherable] Continental Assembly and I shall account the nation happy if the can recover [undecipherable] the kingdom entire [undecipherable]
I am very affectionately yours,
Timothy Pickering
Gen. Lincoln desires an affectionate embrace to you - as I do to your spouse.
Lain C Hodgson, Esq.
