---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:41+00:00'
day: '28'
description: Knox orders Wayne to remain on the margins of the Ohio in order to save rations, prepare for the coming campaign, and to avoid antagonizing the Indians. Among the southern Indians, the Cherokees
  and upper Creeks seem willing to remain at peace but the lower Creeks are causing trouble on the Georgia frontier.
doc_types:
- Recipient's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1793062813055'
omeka_image_id: 22074
images:
- 9c1ac745799cf0e1d3663cb9b56e4c7d268d6a44.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- ration
- price of the ration
- preparations
- forward movements
- howitzers
- stores
- clothing
- transportation
- account
- no suitable ground
- inquiry
- under oath
- high prices
- on the spot and under oath
- reasonableness of the articles charged
- schedule of the recruits
- block house
- erection of a block house at Wheeling
- disturbances
- depredations
- descent of the garrisons
- course of the Summer
- council was convened
- depredations on the frontiers of Georgia
- general alarm
- adequate arrangements for punishing the Creeks
- three boats
- regular and certain communication
- boats
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Ohio
- Fort Pitt
- Miami river
- margin of the Ohio
- the two Miamis
- Vincennes
- Pittsburgh
- blockhouse
- Wheeling
- upper parts of the Ohio
- Fort Washington
- Philadelphia
- Wells Town
- frontiers of Georgia
- Georgia
- Niagara
notable_persons:
- Anthony Wayne
- Henry Knox
- Captain Melcher
- Brigadier General Wilkinson
- President of the United States
- troops
- Commissioners
- Henry Vanderburg
- Captain Preston
- Lieutenant Colonel Clarke
- Governor Blount
- Cherokees
- the Cherokees
- John Watts
- chiefs
- principal chiefs
- Shawanese
- Shawanese agents
- upper Creeks
- lower Creeks
- large bodies of militia
- Governor of Georgia
- Congress
- Commissioners at Niagara
- Jacob Myers
- Mr. Myers
note: "Cited in Knox to Wayne, 07/20/1793.\r\n\r\nSpans Images 212-216 of this collection."
omeka_id: 44965
page_start: '212'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Order for Legion to Hold Position; Report on Actions of Cherokees and Creeks
year: '1793'
---



No 55. From Major General Knox Secy of War
War department
June 28th 1793
Sir
I wrote you on the 7th instant, which was forwarded down the Ohio by Captain Melcher who left Fort Pitt on the 15th instant. Since which yours of the 9th May enclosing a letter from Brigadier General Wilkinson of the 8th of that month has been received and submitted to the President of the United States.
It is satisfactory to hear of your arrival in such good order. You complaint that there is no suitable ground near the margin of the Ohio between the two Miamis, whereon to encamp your Troops Troops It was pointed out to you, to remain upon the margin of the Ohio during your preparations for forward movements for those reasons. The first the saving in the price of the ration, the second, the supposed convenience that would reflect from such a situation to accelerate your preparations, and the third, that any forward movement in force would occation the distruction of the Commissioners and imputations upon our good faith.
These reasons were so strong that the President does not see how circumstances can warrant his giving any counter orders.
The letter from Brigadier General Wilkinson and your judgment of his conduct are confirmations of the high opinion the President has entertained of his talents and regard to the public interest.
All the howitzers and nearly all the stores required are forwarded and the clothing has partly gone and the remainder will be forwarded as fast as possible the transportation being in such train that all the clothing will be sent hence in a few days.
I enclose you an account which relates relates to supplies furnished by Henry Vanderburg at Vincennes and I request that you would be pleased to cause an immediate inquiry to be made on the spot, and under both of the reasonableness of the articles charged, which an account of the high prices have not been allowed at the Treasury. This investigation ought to be by two respectable characters and the report transmitted to me.
Still I have not heard from Captain Preston, but I hope he has joined you.
Enclosed is a schedule of the recruits which have marched, all of whom will defend the Ohio as soon as they shall arrive Pittsburgh.
The erection of a Block House at Wheeling which has been directed to be executed by Lieutenant Coll Clarke will delay the descent of the Garrisons from the upper parts of the Ohio, as mentioned in my letter of the 7th instant. Until the latter part of next month and which with other circumstances will occation probably about one hundred and twenty men to remain on the upper part of the Ohio above Fort Washington.
By some recent information from
from Governor Blount it is probably that the disturbances among the Cherokees will be quieted, and that he will be able to bring John Watts and other Principal Chiefs to Philadelphia in the course of the Summer. It was expected they would reject the offers of the Shawanese agents as a council was convened at Wells Town about the 19th of last Month.

The upper Creeks in a general Council concern=ed on purpose to hear the proposals of the Shawa=nese agents decided against them, and to abide by the peace with the United States.

But it is to be regretted that some of the lower Creeks have been again committing depredations on the frontiers of Georgia. A gen=neral alarm has taken place in that State and very large bodies of Militia have been ordered into Service by the Governor. Indeed according to present appearances it is to be exceedingly apprehended that upon the meeting of Congry's it will become a measure of necessity to make adequate arrangements for punishing the Creeks.

Until Congry's direct offensive measure it is
is concerned authority is wanting for that purpose.

Nothing further has been received from the Commissioners at Niagara since my letter for you of the 7<sup>th</sup>. 

As it is of great importance that a regular and certain communication shall be kept with you, an arrangement has been made with Ja=cob Myers for three Boats to be kept constantly plying between Forts Pitt and Washington the papers relatively to their business are herein enclosed. 

Mr. Myers has only three Boats in readiness but he promised me, he would have six a going as soon as possible -- you will please to urge him to complete this number with the utmost expeditions.  

I am 
<br> Sir
<br> with great respect and esteem
<br> your obedient Servant 
<br> H Knox
<br> Sec<sup>ry</sup> of War 
<br> Major General Wayne
