---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:42+00:00'
day: '05'
description: Will pay particular attention to instructions respecting erection of block house and store house at Wheeling. Will proceed to Wheeling to ascertain materials needed. Mentions river transportation
  for Captain Zebulon Pike's detachment. River is sufficiently high. Discusses block house on Beaver Creek, which is not navigable in summer. Offers up alternatives such as Pittsburg, Buffaloe Creek. Has
  spent time paying boatmen and boat builders.  Will forward return.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1793070554001'
omeka_image_id: 21411
images:
- 77bfcfde6bd831f5492bb32f9b45493e06331c4b.jpg
- f92c935dc206feac72ba724ff9bea7fdf572fbd4.jpg
- 6fff4f83ec57bf53df372fe72e11f7e25158dae3.jpg
- be49592fb148cb5ac8dad7f4fa5973bcc7502825.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- instructions
- block house
- store house
- denominations
- construction of the buildings
- costs of the materials
- estimate of the expense
- expense
- boats
- stores
- river
- deposits
- large hut
- canoes
- secure from the enemy
- money
- claims
- pay
- general return
- abstract of expenditures
- vouchers for disbursements
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Pittsburgh
- Wheeling
- river
- Beaver Creek
- Fort McIntosh
- Ohio River
- Block House on Beaver Creek
- Buffalo Creek
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Isaac Craig
- Captain Sprout
- Secretary of the Treasury
- Alexander Hamilton
- Colonel Clarke
- Captain Pike
- detachments
- Colonel Hamilton
- Quartermasters Department
- boatmen
- boat builders
- Quartermaster General
note: "Cited in Knox to Craig, 07/12/1793.\r\nDocument partly illegible."
omeka_id: 45011
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Block House Construction; Captain Pike's Detachment; Payment of Boatmen and Boat Builders
year: '1793'
---



315
Pittsburgh, 5th July,1793
Sir,
I have Received your Letter of the 28th Ultimo, including a Copy of a Letter from the Secretary of the Treasury - 
I shall pay particular attention to your Instructions, Respecting the Block House, and Store House, to be erected at Wheeling.
As soon as Colonel Clarke has determined, on the Denominations, and Constructions, of the Buildings I shall proceed to Wheeling, to Asscertain the particular Costs of the Materials &c in Order to enable me to form an accurate Estimate of the Expence - 
Boats to Carry Capt. Pikes & the other detachments, together with all their Stores, that are yet arrived or may come to hand, during his stay at this place, Shall be Ready - 
The River Continues Sufficiently high for any purpose of our Navigation - 
I Shall write to Capt Colo. Sprout Respecting the Business mentioned in the Secretary of the Treasury's [post?]
[illegible] and [illegible] a Confidential Person to Transact that Business at Beaver Creek, but I am [illegible] that Colonel Hamilton has made Choice of Fort McIntosh for a place of Deposits as there is not a Building of any kind on that Ground, nor within three Miles of it on that side of the Ohio and the only one at that distance is the Block House on Beaver Creek, now garrisoned by a Serjeant and small party who occupy the whole Building, being only a large Hutt, therefore an improper place to deposit Spirit.  Another Inconveniency will arise by Beaver Creeks, not being Navigable in the Summer for even Small Canoes.  
Would not Pittsburgh, Buffaloe Creek or Wheeling be more Convenient to the Inhabitants and more secure from the Enemy or such Minded People, 
I Expected before this time to have been supplyed with Money Sufficient to have Satisfyed all the Claims against the Quarter Master Department at this port up to the first of this month.  
I have Borrowed a Considerable Sum to Enable me to pay Boatmen Boat Builders &c &c Still several large are all unpaid.  It will be
if possible for me to Transmit the Business of this Post, without a more Regular Supply  
At the distance the Quarter Master General is at this place a Regular Intercourse cannot be had from therefore under a Necessity of Requesting that a fund may be Established to which I may have access, for defraying the Expences of this Post agreeable to the Quarter Master Generals Instruction Expressed in his last letter a Copy of which I enclosed to you on the 7th Ultimo.  
A general Return of Stores together with an Abstract of Expenditures, for last three months in now in hand, and shall be forwarded by next Post together with Voucher for Disbursements.  
I am Sir Your Most Obedt Humble Servt 
Isaac Craig
Honble Maj General Henry Knox 
Secretary of War 
Philadelphia
