---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:44+00:00'
day: '25'
description: Details of accounts current, enclosed.  Repeated requests for money, Craig has been personally borrowing large sums from friends to meet demands on Quartermaster's Department.  Assumption that
  troops at Marietta and Gallipolis have sufficient number of boats for transport.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1793072554001'
omeka_image_id: 21415
images:
- c0b21ff046a43af985a2c6b2707c4be7647e1903.jpg
- c459115b220145aa0208af95447162f31aa70e87.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- account current
- disbursements
- monies received
- Indian Accounts
- credit
- requisition
- borrowing
- due bills
- personally accountable
- estimate of expenditures
- contract
- block house
- store house
- barrack
- stockade
- materials
- forage
- express boat
- repairs
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Pittsburgh
- Marietta
- Gallipolis
- Gallopolis
- Wheeling
- Ohio River
- headquarters
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Isaac Craig
- Quartermasters Department
- Quartermaster General
- Commander in Chief
omeka_id: 45105
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Accounts
year: '1793'
---



337
Pittsburgh July 25th 1793
Sir,
I have herewith Inclosed an Account Current with the Quarter Master Department, which takes into view the Amount of my Disbursements, together with Monies Received, whilst acting under the Administration of the present Quarter Master General, the Indian Accts are Included as I Conceived it proper, to give Credit for the Consequent Drafts, made on the Secretary of War.  
You will see by this Statement that a ballance of Seven thousand, Seven hundred and fifty Eight, Dollars, appear in my favor which fully Explains the Reason of my Repeated Requisition for Money.  
I have been under a Necessity of Borrowing of my Friends large Sums, and of giveing due Bills for a Considerable Amount to others for all of which I am Personally Accountable, I therefore hope that attention may be paid to my feelings as well as to the honor and Interest of the Quarter Master Department.  
I have Also Inclosed an Estimate of Expenditures that must Accrue in the Course of the present Quarter year.  the principle Objects of this Estimate, are already purchased or Contracts made for them by Order of the Quarter Master General. 
The Block House, Store House, Barrack & Stockade at
at Wheeling taken into this Estimate.  [illegible] too low, as Materials at that place Rates higher than I at first Expected. 
It is probable that an addition must be made to the Estimate in Consequence of Contracts, entered into by the Quarter Master General, for Forage on the Ohio below this post, this forage has since his departure, been Received and sent forward to Head Quarters, but as the Amount of Cash advanced by the Quarter Master General to some of the people that furnished forage, will be ascertained in a few days, I shall then make a Requisition for the sum still due .  I presume it will Amount to 3,000 Dollars.  
A Principle part of the Amount of the Estimate is immediately wanted, to answer present Engagements.  
Your letter of the 20th Instant I have this Moment Received, together with a packet, addressed to the Commander in Chief which shall be forwarded in the Manner and with the precaution you direct by an Express Boat.  
I presume the Troops at Marietta and Gallopolis have Boats sufficient to carry them, but as these Boats have been some time out of Use, they will want Considerable Repairs
The River Continues in a tolerable state for Navigation.  
I am Sir Your Obedt Humbl Servt 
Isaac Craig
Honble Maj General Henry Knox 
Secretary of War
Philadelphia
