---
author_note: Confederate Indians
authors:
- Chiefs and Warriors Council of Indian Nations at Rapids of Miami River
collection_id: 979
collections:
- Jonathan Cass Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:44+00:00'
day: '27'
description: Speech sent to Commissioners concerning misunderstanding of boundary line between Indians and white people.  Request immediate removal of settlers on Indian land.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1793072790301'
omeka_image_id: 18213
images:
- a71132e66d4ff23d551280c75c09af998dcad1dc.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- boundary line
- treaty
- full council
notable_locations:
- Ohio River
- boundary line
- fort
- Fort Stanwix
- Ohio River
notable_persons:
- Wyandots
- Shawnee
- Miamies
- Mingos
- Ottawas
- Chippawas
- Pouttawatamies
- Connoys
- Munseys
- white people
- commissioners
- messengers
- settlers
- Confederate Indians
- deputies
note: 'Signed by: Wyandots; Shawnee; Miamies; Mingos; Ottawas; Chippawas; Pouttawatamies; Connoys; Munseys;'
omeka_id: 45121
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: To the Commissioners of the United States
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
title: Question Regarding Power to Negotiate
year: '1793'
---



Copy of a Speech agreed on and sent to the Commissioners of the United States dated 27th July 1793 by the Confederate Indians.  
[Stamped] Photocopies from original in William L. Clements Library, University of Michigan. Permission of Library Director required for reproduction, use, or publication. Deposit of this copy in other institutions is strictly prohibited.
To The Commissioners of the United States.
Brothers -- The Deputies we sent to you did not fully explain our meaning; We have therefore sent others to meet you once more, that you may fully understand the great question we have to ask of you, and to which we expect an explicit answer in writing.  
Brothers You are sent here by the United States in order to make peace with us the Confederate Indians:
Brothers You know very well that the boundary line which was run between the White people and us at the Treaty of Fort Stanwix, was the River Ohio.
Brothers If you seriously design to make a firm and lasting peace, you will immediately remove all your people from our side of that River.
Brothers
Brothers We therefore ask you, Are you fully authorized by the United States, to continue and firmly fix on the Ohio River as the Boundary Line between your people and ours?
Done in General Council at the foot of the Miamis Rapids 27th July 1793. 
In behalf of ourselves and the whole Confederacy and agreed to in a full Council.
Wyandots --
Delawares --
Shawanese -- 
Miamies --
Mingoes -- 
Powtawatamies -- 
Ottawas --
Connoy's -- 
Chippewa's -- 
Munsey's -- 
[Stamped] Photocopies from original in William L. Clements Library, University of Michigan.  Permission of Library Director required for reproduction, use, or publication.  Deposit of this copy in other institutions is strictly prohibited.
