---
authors:
- James Seagrove
collection_id: 896
collections:
- 'Third Congress:  Transcribed Confidential Reports and Other Communications Transmitted by the Secretary of War to the House of Representatives, 3d'
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:44+00:00'
day: '29'
description: Seagrove, writing from Savannah to Weatherford, laments the death of David Cornell and refers to the stupidity of McDaniel [presumably McDonald] for letting it happen. Spanish have been a thorn
  in side. Refers to meeting in September as ordered by President of United States General George Washington. Anticipates danger but believes the meeting will be worthwhile.
doc_types:
- Copy of document
document_number: '1793072990455'
omeka_image_id: 19557
images:
- d4cf554a313f18bee2f0d0b2c559340023db6000.jpg
month: '07'
notable_locations:
- Savannah
- Georgia
- Rocklanding
- Upper Towns
- Oakmulgee
- Cussetah
notable_persons:
- Charles Weatherford
- James Seagrove
- McDonald
- McDaniel
- President of United States General George Washington
- David Cornell
- Mr Bernard
- Mr. Barnard
- Chiefs of Upper Towns
- Cussetahs
- Rawlings
- Townsend
note: This document is enclosed in a statement relative to the South Western frontiers, as connected with the state of Georgia and Creek Indians, the south Western territory of the United States and the
  Cherokees submitted to the House of Representatives on December 4, 1793. This document is an integral part of [Public Reports] and other communications of the Secretary of War, 12/99/1793.
omeka_id: 45132
page_start: '370'
recipients:
- Charles Weatherford
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Savannah
title: Letter from James Seagrove to Charles Weatherford on death of David Cornell, Spaniards, planned meeting on 10 September
year: '1793'
---




James Seagrove to Charles Weatherford
Savannah 29th July 1793
Sir,
Your letter of the 11th June last I received from the pack of our unfortunate friend David Cornell whose fate you must have heard before this.  His death has given me more real anxiety than any thing I ever met with. it was a cursed stupid affair in McDaniel to leave them twenty or thirty miles behind when he knew an armed force was kept up all along the frontier and same time know that all the white people were angry at the unprovoked outrages committed on them by the red ones.  I do not believe from my soul that McDaniel intended them harm, but certain it is he acted unwisely, poor Cornell is gone and we must make the best of
of it, I hope his family has not and will not take any rash steps.  I do assure them they shall have full satisfaction if they will act with moderation as soon as the unfortunate affair took place.  I dispatched a runner to Mr. Barnard in order that all our white friends in the nation might take such measures as to them would seem most advisable in the situation affairs might take.  I hope however no changes hath taken place in consequence of Cornell's death, and that the Chief and people have not altered their opinion of us on this account.
Your conduct in all matters I highly approve, continue to perserve firm and determined conduct in every thing either with white or red.  The Spaniards have been our ruin, be a thorn in their side, it is but justice to do by them as they do by us.  It appears from the whole tenor of all information from the nation that those who wish to restore peace and order, and to have all matters brought to a respectable footing are anxious for my coming among them for that purpose, it being also the command of the President of the United States, that I should, as well from a full conviction in my own mind that good may arise therefrom.  I have concluded that if any friends in the nation can form a party sufficient to overpower our enemies, and will be firm in preserving any person from injury or my country from insult thro' me, I will meet them without delay.  I think the time a critical one and any appearances might have a good effect.
I have wrote several of the Chiefs of the Upper towns which doubtless you will see, my wish is for them to meet me at the Oakmulgee by the 10th September, with a sufficient force to escort me to the Cussetah and from thens to the Upper Towns.  
Tho
368.
Tho' I have little apprehension of danger yet I think it will have a good effect and damp out enemies by seeing my friends turn out numerous on this occasion.  My dear Weatherford it is useless in me to make use of arguments with you, to induce your forwarding this very desirable business.  I have only to say I depend on your utmost coertions, and shall without fail expect to meet you at the Rocklanding a day or so before the time necessary for my setting off for the Oakmulgee, Tell Rawlings not to leave the nation until I see him.  Bring as many of your head men as you can, I must refer you to Townsend and when you and I meet we will manage our affairs until then.  
I remain your assured friend, 
(Signed) James Seagrove
