---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:44+00:00'
day: '02'
description: Reports on letters received. Captain Pike's detachment not yet arrived. Forwards packets addressed to President of United States and Secretary of War.  Has returned from laying out store house,
  block house, and stockade at Wheeling.  From a letter sent by Mr. Wilson at Detroit, there are not hopes for Indian peace.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1793080289001'
omeka_image_id: 21417
images:
- d50a4f2195d31a13d5b4c9db5a0d8e23d6d562bf.jpg
- f358da99623dc00d66a55a94e8fa1b1773d9df07.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- packet
- detachment
- stores
- articles
- transcript
- requisition
- receipts
- public monies
- wagons
- axes
- store house
- block house, small stockade
- contracting for the materials
- blockhouse guns
- harbour
- boats
- harbor
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
- Head Quarters
- Wheeling
- river
- Wheeling Creek
- Detroit
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Isaac Craig
- Commander in Chief
- Lieutenant Tinsley
- Captain Pratt
- Captain Pike
- Zebluon Pike
- President of the United States
- Secretary of War
- George Washington
- Henry Knox
- Quarter Master General
- workmen
- William Wilson
- James Bryson
note: Although the recipient is not indicated, this letter appears to have been sent to Henry Knox.
omeka_id: 45169
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Captain Zebulon Pike's Detachment, Construction at Wheeling, Peace with Indians, Etc
year: '1793'
---



Pittsburgh 2d August 1793
Sir,
Your Letter of the 27th Ultimo, together with a letter from Samuel Hodgdon Esqr Enclosing three Thousand Dollars is this Moment come to hand, a Packet for the Commander in Chief is also Received, together with letters for [illegible] Officers at Head Quarters which shall be forwarded by Lieut Tinsley, who is to sett off on Monday next.
Capt Pratts Detachment is not yet arrived, but expected tomorrow.  On his Arrival I shall shew him that part of your letter Respecting fifty Men of his Detachment halting here till further Orders.  
All the stores that have come to hand since Captain Pikes departure, together with articles provided here, shall be forwarded in Charge of Lieut Tinsley,
I have just Received a Packet addressed to the President of the United States, and three Packets addressed to the Secretary of War, which are now sent forward by Port
I have also Received a letter from the Quarter Master General dated the 11th Ultimo, a Transcript of which is Enclosed; you will see by this Letter, that the Quarter Master General Expected the whole amount of Stores Required for the Current Year, would have Reached here by that time, my feelings are Exceedingly hurt by several Expresses particularly on the Stores that have yet come to
to hand have not been delayed, here one hour unnecessarily, nor have, I Neglected any Article of his Requisition that I was enabled to purchase with the Money put into my hands, or to procure on my own credit, a Statement of my Receipts, and disbursements of Public Monies, sent by last Post, Explains the Reason, that all the Waggons have not been purchased, and sent forward, as they cannot be obtained, without Money, the Axes, and other Articles are mostly sent forward.  
I am just Returned from laying out a Store House, Block House, and Small Stockade at, Wheeling, and for contracting for the Materials and Employing Workman, who I Expect will have the Store House completed by the 15th Instant, but I am apprehensive this situation will not answer, ever purpose intended, as an Island, opposite Wheeling, that is nearly two miles long, will prevent the Block House Guns from Commanding the whole of the River. The principle Channel, however, is on the East side of the Island and the Mouth of Wheeling Creek (immediately under the Block House) forms an excellent Harbour for Boats.  
I have enclosed a Copy of a letter from Mr. William Wilson, dated Detroit 9th July 1793, to his friend James Bryson of this place -- by this letter, Mr. Wilson appears to have no hopes of peace.
