---
author_note: Commissioners
authors:
- Federal Commissioners Treaty at Sandusky
collection_id: 855
collections:
- Benjamin Lincoln Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:46+00:00'
day: '13'
description: Message sent to Indian Nations represented at the Council at the Rapids of the Miami River.  Request an answer. Message relates to disputes over the boundary line.
doc_types:
- Extract of Letter
document_number: '1793081390201'
omeka_image_id: 17854
images:
- 777e70cb1870dde2c9dae7180d81777489980a79.jpg
month: 08
notable_locations:
- rapids of the Miami River
- Miami River
- Ohio River
- frontier
- boundary
- boundary line
notable_persons:
- Indians
- commissioners
- chiefs
omeka_id: 45240
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Chiefs and Warriors Council of Indian Nations at Rapids of Miami River
repositories:
- Massachusetts Historical Society
resource_type: Document
title: Message to the Indians
year: '1793'
---



69  Tuesday August 13 
Being thus prevented from proceeding to the Miami bay, the Commissioners concluded to send a message to the Indian Nations at the rapids, and a letter to Colo McKee. The message & letter here follows.
To the chief warriours of the Indian nations assembled at the foot of the rapids of the Miami river.  Brothers, it is now fifteen days since we delivered our speach to your deputies at this place; in which we explicitly answered the written question presented by them from you, and gave our reasons why we could not make the Ohio the boundary between you and the United States.  We also mentioned ^some of^ the kind, of the engagements we were willing to make in behalf of the United States.  The particulars together with other stipulations for your benefit, we judged proper to reserve to be explained you in full council, when we should meet face to face.  Brothers, the next morning your deputies spoke to us, said they would our [illegible] before you, [and?] desired us to wait for your answer, which we desired & expected might be speedily given.  
Brothers, we have waited fourteen days, and no answer has yet arrived.  
Brothers, it is time to bring the business to a conclusion, the summer has almost passed away, and we do not yet know even whether we are to have a treaty.  
Brothers, you know that we came to treat with you of peace, we again tell you that we [expressly?] desire ^to make^ peace; and in the times of peace we [illegible] to do you ample justice.  But if nothing is to be held, if peace is not to be obtained, we desire immediately to know it, so that we may go home.  
Signed by the Commissioners
