---
authors:
- Anthony Wayne
collection_id: 896
collections:
- 'Third Congress:  Transcribed Confidential Reports and Other Communications Transmitted by the Secretary of War to the House of Representatives, 3d'
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:50+00:00'
day: '05'
description: "Extract of letter copied by John Stagg, War Department Clerk. Wayne reports he is attempting to call out Kentucky militia through Governor Isaac Shelby. Shelby has appointed Major General\
  \ Charles Scott as commander of Kentucky forces. \r\nReports that sickness, particularly influenza, has depleted ranks of  effective forces, with numbers to about 2600.  Auxiliaries include guides, spies\
  \ and mounted volunteers. Plans to move north to Fort Jefferson. Suspects that the tranquility on frontier is proof that enemy is preparing for battle. Suggests that they cannot keep this up, as they\
  \ cannot sustain selves indefinitely. Assures Knox and President of United States General George Washington, that he will not commit the Legion unnecessarily [presumably a reference to St. Clair's 1791\
  \ disaster]."
doc_types:
- Copy of document
document_number: '1793100553566'
omeka_image_id: 19557
images:
- 249e701d6099c690a2af400374cc9cac967522d0.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- influenza
notable_locations:
- Hobson's Choice
- Ohio
- Fort Washington
- Cincinnati
- Fort Jefferson
- Sandusky
- Kentucky
- Hill Water
- Western Frontier
- Southwest Branch of Miami
- Field of Cattle
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Secretary of War
- Major General Anthony Wayne
- President of United States General George Washington
- John Stagg
- Governor Isaac Shelby
- Major General Charles Scott
- Federal Commissioners Sandusky
- Kentucky militia
- General St. Clair
- Chickasaw Indian Scouts
note: Cited in Knox to Wayne, 11/25/1793.This document is enclosed in instructions to the commissioners appointed to deal with the hostile Indians north of the Ohio, in the form of a journal of their proceedings,
  submitted to the House of Representatives on December 4, 1793. This document is an integral part of [Public Reports] and other communications of the Secretary of War, 12/99/1793.
omeka_id: 45487
page_start: '100'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Hobson's Choice
title: Extract of letter from Major General Anthony Wayne to Secretary of War Henry Knox from Hobson's Choice, near Fort Washington on campaign preparations
year: '1793'
---




[page] 98
Extract of a letter from Major General Wayne to the Secretary of War, dated, HeadQuarters, Hobson's Choice near Fort Washington 5th October 1793.
"Agreeably to the Authority vested in me by your letter of the 17th of May 1793, I have used every means in my power to bring forward the mounted volunteers from Kentucky as you will observe by the enclosed correspondence with His Excellency Governor Shelby, and Major General Scott upon this interesting occasion.
I have even adopted their own propositions by ordering a draft of the Militia which I consider as the dernier resort, and from which I must acknowledge that I have but little hopes of success.
Add to this that we have a considerable number of officers and men sick and debilitated, from fevers and other disorders incident to all armies - But this is not all, we have recently been visited by a malady called the Influenza, which has pervaded the whole line in a most alarming and rapid degree. Fortunately this complaint has not been fatal except in a few instances, and I have now the pleasure to inform you that we are generally recovered, or in a fair way - but our effective force will be much reduced, as you will observe by the scale at the bottom of the general return of the legion which I have the honor to transmit by the conveyance, so that after leaving the necessary garrisons at the several posts (which will generally be composed of the sick and invalids) I shall not be able to advance beyond Fort Jefferson with more than twenty six hundred regular effectives, officers included.
What auxiliary force we shall have is yet to be determined at present their numbers are only thirty six guides and spies, and three hundred [page] 99
hundred and sixty mounted Volunteers. This is not a pleasant picture, but something must be done immediately to save the frontiers from impending savage fury.
I will therefore advance tomorrow with the force I have in order to gain a strong position about six miles in front of Fort Jefferson, so as to keep the army in check (by exciting a Jealousy and apprehension for the safety of their own women and children) until some favorable circumstance or opportunity may present to strike with effect.
The present apparent tranquility on the frontiers, and that the head of the line, is a convincing proof to me, that the enemy are collected or collecting in force to oppose the legion, either on its march or in some unfair position for the Cavalry to act in. Disappoint them in this favorite plan or manouvre, they may probably be tempted to attack our lines. In this case, I trust they will not have much reason to triumph from the accounts.
They cannot continue long embodied for want of provision and at their breaking up, they will most certainly make some desperate effort upon some quarter or other should the mounted volunteers advance in force we might yet compel those haughty savages to [cease?] for peace, before the next opening of the leaves. Be that as it may, I pray you not to permit present appearances to cause too much anxiety either in the mind of the President, or yourself on account of this Army, knowing the critical situation of our infant nation, and feeling for the honor and reputation of Government (which I will support with my latest breath) You may rest assured that I will not commit the legion unnecessarily, and unless more powerfully supported than I at present have reason to expect, I will content myself by taking a strong position advanced of Fort Jefferson, and by exerting every power, endeavour to protect [page] 400.
protect the frontiers, and to secure the posts and army during the Winter or until I am honored with your further orders.
True Extract
John Stagg Junr
Chf Clk W. D.
