---
authors:
- King of Spain
collection_id: 636
collections:
- 'Nathaniel Pendleton Family Papers, #392'
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:53+00:00'
day: '28'
description: Head of a treaty between the King of Spain and the Creek, Chickasaw, and Cherokee Indians.
doc_types:
- Document
document_number: '1793102890001'
omeka_image_id: 11394
images:
- 81edb418b74c299af3800f41da9e6166721ee7f4.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- treaty
notable_locations:
- Walnut Hill
- Yazou
- Spain
- Alabama
- Mobile
notable_persons:
- Creeks
- Chickasaw
- Cherokee
- Spanish
- commissioners
omeka_id: 45533
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Creeks, Choctaw, Chickasaw, Cherokee Indians
repositories:
- 'Sterling Library: Manuscripts and Archives'
resource_type: Document
title: Treaty between Spanish and Indians
year: '1793'
---



Head of a Treaty Between the King of Spain
and the Creek, Choctaw, Chickasaw, and Cherokee
Indians. Dated at the Walnut Hills October 28th
1793. Containing 19 Articles.
The Indians promise to ratify all former
Treaties made with Spain. The Cherokees req
request the King of Spain to take them under
his protection; which he grants them.
The said nations form an alliance,
Affective and Defensive with his Catholic
Majesty, and not to enter into any War,
without the consent of the king. - The said 
Natives agree to defend his catholic majestys
Dominion of Louisiana and the Floridas.
The said Nations request his Catholic
Majesty will settle the boundary between 
them and the United States. His
Catholic majesty agrees to settle the
boundary, and protect them and their 
land.
His Catholic majesty agrees to give
annual presents to the said Nations.
The Chickasaw to receive their presents
on the Banks of the Missipippi - The Creek
and Cherokee, at Consecold. The Choctaws 
at Tom Bigby. The Alabamas at Mobille
and not elswhere.
All other matters to be settled by the
the Spanish Commisaries in the Nations respectively - 
All talks to be delivered to them, in each Nation.
They shall respect the Commisaries, and receive it
be governed by their advice. He shall be Judge
and determine all business between the White People. 
The White People that have families 
to be considered as Indians, and those who don't
apply themselves to industry to be turned out of the 
Nation.
Finally the Spanish Nation and and the
Indian Nations agree solemnly to ratify this treaty, and
do consider the Spanish King the sole Emperor of
The Indians. And his Catholic Majesty agrees to
protect them.

Spanish Treaty with the
Indians. at Yazon 28th
October 1793.
