---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 991
collections:
- Executive Papers, Office of Governors Letters
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:53+00:00'
day: 09
description: Knox was unaware of what accounts to draw money from as Philadelphia was in a state of upheaval due to illness and War Dept. organization was unclear.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1793110900201'
omeka_image_id: 20620
images:
- 241a399cbcb485a97e208d6cbf09b1f8604f5bfb.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- malady
- protection of frontiers
- yellow fever epidemic
- account
- bill
- accounts
- advances
notable_locations:
- Washington
- Commonwealth of Virginia
- Germantown near Philadelphia
- Virginia
- frontier
- county
- temporary residence
notable_persons:
- Henry Lee
- Henry Knox
- accountant
- Secretary at War
- commissioners of federal buildings in Washington
- treasury
- President of United States
- George Washington
- Governor of Virgina
omeka_id: 45572
recipients:
- Henry Lee
repositories:
- 'Virginia State Library: Archives and Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Germantown near Philadelphia
title: Accounts for Protection of Virginia Frontier
year: '1793'
---



Secretary of War
Nov. 9, 1793
Concerning Western Claims
Relating to Draft on the
War Department for[scribble] 10,000 in
favour of Commissioners for
[Fr         ] In that [a/city]
[            ] of Washington
Genl Washington has taken
up a temporary [residence] 
in Germantown  -  [outside]
Philada is of free from the 
prevailing epidemics
Germantown near Philadelphia
November 9th. 1793
Sir
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt
of your Excellencys letter of the 30th Ultimo advising me of having
drawn upon me a Bill for ten thousand dollars in favour of
the Commissioner of the Federal Buildings  in the city of 
Washington, on account of monies advanced to the United
States by the Commonwealth of Virginia.
As the Accountant of the War Department has not
yet joined the Department, owing to the malady in Philadelphia,
I am uninformed on what account these advances have been
made.  I hope however he will be at this place early in the ---
next week when the desired information  may be obtained.
In the meantime I am led to conjecture that the advances
alluded to may have been on account of the Companies,
which Virginia may have ordered for the protection of 
the frontiers during the present Years.  If this should be 
the
the case, and the Bill shall have been drawn upon an unliqui[-]
dated account.  I am apprehensive that it immediate acceptance
will be attended with insuperable difficulties at the Treasury.
I shall write to your Excellency as soon as farther
information shall be had upon the subject.
The President of the United States has taken up 
his temporary residence at this place, until the disorder in 
the City shall have entirely ceased, at present  it is rapidly 
declining.  In the meantime the public business will be
transacted here - -- 
I have the honour to be
with great respect
Your Excellency
obedient Servant
Know
Secy of War
