---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:55+00:00'
day: '29'
description: Major Craig agrees with Hodgdon that making waggoners accountable for damaged goods is not practicable.  Craig also mentions the fever in Philadelphia.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1793112980001'
omeka_image_id: 14603
images:
- a9f5e03df7d4516a2ae19a961253bc417c339671.jpg
- bdede952315b13c9a777d128794e6c93e18dc1f0.jpg
- 8b848fd11955b01a32443d030cea8f4af7d90dee.jpg
- ce548ff11bb7133d8abfcb1f625ef6877a0e7f5d.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- stationary
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Isaac Craig
omeka_id: 45662
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburg
title: Craig discusses military stores and shipment with Hodgdon
year: '1793'
---



[Note: Paper is folded into thirds, the left and right most thirds only bear the identifier number 207] 
[Note: the following are all centered, with exception of '207', which is to the right of the government stamp]
Letter from Major
Craig dated
29th November
1793 
All of our [names]
Isaac Craig
[Stamped]
Received
from
State Dep't.
Nov. 24 1894.
R. P. O. 401810
Hand scribed 207 
[perfectly round stain follows]
[Note: this is scribed twice more, next to stamp, on other third bearing no text, for filing purposes probably]
Pittsburg 29th Novmr 1793 ------

Sir
Your favour of the 15th & 22d instant have
been received together with the Enclosures, but ever so much [Hurryin]
last Post data had not much time to acknowledge it --
Mr Carrey's Pamphlet gives [    ] Satisfactory [  ],
of Your deplorable situation during the continuance of the late
Malignant Fever.  Your standing your Ground during the[n] which
of that dreadfull scene is A proof of great firmness of Mine --
I am of Your Opinion that it will be difficultt
to make the Waggons Accountable for damages the Cloathin[g]

has sustained, & especially as the packags were not Opened at this 

Port.  which should have been done, had there been the least ap-
-pearances of injurey to either the Cases or their Contents preve-
-ous to giving the Waggoner Receipts for their Loading ---
No accounts have yet arrived from theArmy that 
can be dissended on --
Major Cap. will deliver Jacob [Hosselman] [Nov./Mon]
Saddle & Briddle ---
The fils & Stationary You mentioned ar not 
Yet come to hand.  They are much wanterd --

                                Your Obedient Humble Servt

                                                                              Isaac Craig

Saml Hodgdon Esqr

          Philad

[Stamped in botton center, centered text for:]
Received 
from
State Dep't.
Nov. 24. 1894.
R.P.O. 401810.
