---
collection_id: 983
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:57+00:00'
day: '11'
description: Six nations proposed new treaty due to dissatisfaction with hostile Indians which allotted more farm land to United States settlers.  Chaplin believed the Six Nations were so eager for peace
  that they may consent to further extension of the proposed boundaries.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1793121140001'
omeka_image_id: 17936
images:
- c40daf6c59b003380ad533ff87a6e06dabddf71e.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- treaty
- grant
- wampum
- land
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Buffalo Creek
- Buffaloe Creek
- Ohio River
- Muskingum
- river
- portage
- Cayahoga
- Pennsylvania
- Venango
- settlement
- farmland
- boundary line
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Israel Chaplin
- Chipewas
- confederates
- Indians
- Six Nations
- British
- General Clarke
- Red Jacket
- Captain Billy
- Senekas
- Senecas
- Fish Carrier
- Cayugas
- Miamis
- Delawares
- Wyandots
- Shawneses
- Great Sky
- Onondogas
- Captain Brandt
- Mohawks
- cornplanter
- corn planter
- hostile Indians
omeka_id: 45715
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
title: Details of Council at Buffalo Creek Relayed with Request for Treaty
year: '1793'
---



Philadelphia, Decr 11, 1793
Sir,
The communication made to me at Buffaloe Creek, on the 8th of October last, by the Chiefs of the Six Nations, in presence of Col Butler, and other British Subjects, appearing imperfect, as stated in the written account of the proceedings which I have presented to you, I will, agreeably to your request, give such explanations as may seem requisite in forming a judgment of the proposition therein contained.
In conversation with the chiefs of the Six Nations, they informed me, that they and the Chippewas, with their confederates, being dissatisfied with the conduct of the hostile Indians, by which the late attempt to effect a peace was frustrated, agreed to manifest their wishes to the United States, that another Treaty might be held next Spring. They observed that neither the Wyandots the Delawares Shawnanese nor Miamies had really any right to the land in dispute; and therefore that the fixing of a boundary line ought not to rest with those nations. And being desirous of bringing about a Peace with the United States, they agreed to propose a boundary Line, which should comprehend all the Settlements made by the people of the United States, over the Ohio, together with the whole of the Land eastward of Muskingum, as high up as the portage from the head of this River to Cayahoga, and southward of a Line running from that Portage to the Pennsylvania Line, northward and eastward of Venango: as marked in the Map which they gave me and which I
I have delivered to you. The detached Spots marked on the map along the Ohio appearing small, and not to comprehend all our Settlements, I asked the chiefs for an explanation. They then said, that it was meant to comprehend all our settlements, with good pieces of Land about them, so as to make good Farms for the Settlers. With respect to the Grant to General Clarke, they appeared to mean that the whole of that should be confirmed for him and his Warriors.
The principal chiefs of the Six Nations were present at the Council of Buffaloe Creek, particularly the Farmer's Brother, Red Jacket and Capt Billy of the Senekas; the Fish Carrier, head Chief of the Cayugas; Great Sky head chief of the Onondagas; and Capt Brant of the Mohawks; and great numbers of inferior Chiefs. All manifested an ardent desire to procure a peace between the United States and the hostile Indians; and that another Treaty might be held for this purpose.--The Corn planter was not present. He sent me a string of Wampum by a runner, to inform me that he could not without great inconvenience attend this council.
The Chiefs of the Six Nations asked for my opinion whether the United States would consent to hold another Treaty, but I declined giving it. I mentioned however to two or three of the principal Chiefs, that a difficulty might arise about the place of Treaty; if there should be a disposition to hold one--But these Chiefs said no difficulty would arise on that score; the treaty might be held at any frontier Post of the United States, to which provisions could easily be transported, as for instance, at Venango.
The
The great anxiety manifested by the Chiefs of the Six Nations to accomplish a Peace, convinces me that they would be very much grieved and disappointed should the United States refuse to make one more attempt to effect it. With the Conduct of the United States in the late attempt to make Peace, they appeared to be perfectly satisfied. It may deserve consideration what would be their Sentiments if the overtures they have now made towards effecting a Peace, on terms which to them, and to the Chippewas and their confederates, may perhaps seem reasonable, should be utterly disregarded. Undoubtedly it is of vast importance that their affections should not be alienated from us. To retain them, on the contrary, appears now to be of peculair moment, seeing the Chippewas and their Confederates (who form a powerfuly body) are closely linked with the Six Nations, and are alike urgent to accomplish a peace in the way and on the Terms above stated.
Aware that if another were held, the tribes who are obstinately hostile, might refuse to attend it, and therefore totally disregard its issues, I asked the principal Chiefs of the Six Nations, what in that case was to be done? They answd that the greater Nations (the Six Nations, the Chippewas and their Confederates) would compel them to submit.
It may merit consideration, how far a rejection of the overtures for another Treaty may give a handle
to
to those who influenced the measures of the hostile Indians in the late Negociations, to strengthen old, and excite fresh prejudices against the United States.
Should a negociation be but begun with the Indians, at a post of the United States, it is not improbable that an extention of the boundaries proposed by the Six Nations and the Chhippewas, &c might be obtained with their free consent.
The Chiefs will expect an answer on my return.
I have the honor to be, 
Sir, 
Your most obedient Servant
(signed) Israel Chapin.
True Copy--
Jno Stagg Junr
Chf Ckls W.D.
[written on side of paper}:
Phil;adelphis, Dec 1793-
Isreal Chapin 
to
The Secy of War
[copy]
