---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 774
collections:
- Claims Files Relating to Service in the Revolutionary War, 1775-1851. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:21:59+00:00'
day: '17'
description: Major Craig discusses the muster and pay rolls for Forts Fayette, Wheeling, Franklin, and Beaver Blockhouse with Joseph Howell.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794011770001'
omeka_image_id: 16811
images:
- 8ee9d576698d4250dc34ddb73ce14191ee41e21e.jpg
- 5cdeb493524d0cdadfaa9d51ef9c0431f3839e3f.jpg
- a2d9c8d373092009542872afdfdc63e8383436e6.jpg
month: '01'
notable_items:
- pay
- muster rolls
- pay rolls
- receipts
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
- Fort Franklin
- Beaver Block House
- Fort Fayette
- Wheeling
notable_persons:
- Joseph Howell
- Isaac Craig
- Captain Crawford
- Major Cass
- Lieutenant Jonathan Polhemus
note: Cited in Craig to Howell, 01/24/1794.
omeka_id: 45886
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '3'
recipients:
- Joseph Howell
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburg
title: Funding and Currency
year: '1794'
---



Jany 17th 1794
From Isaac Craig Esqr.
Pittsburg 17th January 1794
Dear Sir,
You have herewith enclosed Muster & Pay Rolls of the Garrisons of Fort Franklin and Beaver Block House for the Months of May, June and July 1793.  The Garrison of Fort Fayette and Wheeling (as I before observed to you) cannot be Mustered untill Capt Crawford returns which is shortly expected.  I have however with the advice and concurrence of Major Cass, advanced the men Personally, one Months pay, and I find that they are already accountable to Captain Crawford generally for two Months pay by his Order on Merchants in their favour.
Lieut. Polhemus has made out and Transmitted to me Muster and Pay rolls for all the Months of last year for which he says his men have not been paid.  The rolls for the Months of February, March and April I have herewith Transmitted and Request you to examine and return therewith your remarks respecting these Months, as Lieut Polhemus says his detachment had been paid for only one Month of 1793 viz January Previous - to the payment made by me, therefore Presuming that the Troops at the Posts of Fort Fayette Beaver Block House and Wheeling are in the same situation I have made out and enclosed the Estimate of Pay and forage for these several Posts for Eleven Months of 1793.  By this Estimate it appears that 4452 Dollars in addition to the sum already received is wanted for Last Year.  
I am Dear Sir Your Humbl Servant
Isaac Craig
Joseph Howell Esquire
NB  Lieut Polhemus Receipts of Individual payments is at his request enclosed with the Muster & pay rolls.  
Isaac Craig
