---
authors:
- Brigadier General Otho H. Williams
collection_id: 542
collections:
- General Otho Williams Papers, MS# 908.
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:00+00:00'
day: '05'
description: Rumors that Congress will create standing military, Williams included recommendations of French gentlemen who he though fit to command.  Hoped their military knowledge would excuse their nationality
  and Williams suggestion of a foreign officer over an American.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794020440001'
omeka_image_id: 17921
images:
- b53e3c2d126c866f5941bec6d4f67b6de3a7060b.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- respectable military defense
- session of congress
- fortification
- commission
- military school
notable_locations:
- Baltimore
- Maryland
- France
- Germany
- sick chamber
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Brigadier General Otho Williams
- French
- officers
- William Buchanan Smith
- foreign officer
- congress
- French gentlemen
- command
- William Smith
- Ensign
- brother
- Campbell
- executive officer
- cavalry
- corps of infantry
- company
- General Knox
- Secretary of War
omeka_id: 45967
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Maryland Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Baltimore
title: Preparations for Building Military, Recommendation of William Buchanan Smith
year: '1794'
---



Baltimore February 4th 1794
Sir,
It has been suggested to me thoot Congress will this Session, establish a very respectable Military defence for the Country.
Under this impression I enlarged a little in my letter of yesterday, which will be herewith inclosed on the policy of retaining, in the service of the United States, such French Gentlemen as are Scientifically qualified for command.
The consideration, how few of our Country Men know any thing of Germany or Fortification will I hope escuxe the suggestion.
The present is to Solicit a Commission for William Buchanan Smith, Son of William Smith, of this Town whom you probably knew in Congress and Brother to Campbell, whom at my request you appointed Ensign; He is too Brother to Mrs Williams and I must therefore forbear to express the expectations that I should form of him after being initiated into a Military School. At present he is nothing at all; Having been all his life indulged in his love at case, and to little restrained from the present of his pleasures, he has lived at home dependant upon his father without acquiering any Character but that of a Buck; of which he seems now most heartily tired ad ashamed. He is about twenty six or twenty seven years of age (elder than Campbell) above six feet high - Very stout, but well proportioned, Handsome, and altho [undecipherable]-fident amongfriends posssses I believe the qualifications
of a good executive Officer.
Mr. Smith will accept the Commission of first Lieutnant in any established Corps of Infantry; or the of second Lieutnant in the Cavalary. But if several new Corps are to be raised it is probable the number of recruits [undecipherable]-ould raise might entitle him to a Company.
I am, Sir, With Esteem & friendship
Your Most Hbl Servant
I write very little at ease, in my sich-Chamber You will therefore pardon negligences and mistakes I pray for the prosperity and happiness of my [undecipherable] and feel a cordial affection for all my old Military Friends
Farewell


[Written along the left edge:]
To Gen.l Knox
3d and 4th February 94



Genl Knox
[internal notice, stamped:]
NOTICE:
This material may be protected by
copyright law (Title 17 U.S. Code)
MS 908
THIS COPY IS MADE FOR REFERENCE
NOT TO BE REPRODUCED OR PUBLISHED
