---
authors:
- John Steele
collection_id: 774
collections:
- Claims Files Relating to Service in the Revolutionary War, 1775-1851. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:00+00:00'
day: '05'
description: Enclosed complaints and claim of Mr. White regarding disagreement between claimant and Capt. Kerr.  Steele felt White was entitled pay, and asked Howell to notify White any further paperwork
  required.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794020570001'
omeka_image_id: 16169
images:
- e327f27cfef69e30155da8e668ffeefdcad8c4c7.jpg
- b7bb3f9d03f975625a0acd3219412b8edc1b512a.jpg
- 048d2707d2ef1ca8d005fc5de6a303ae0983282a.jpg
month: '02'
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Salisbury
notable_persons:
- Joseph Howell
- John Steele
omeka_id: 45972
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Joseph Howell
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Salisbury
title: Enclosed Demands of Mr. White Against United States Regarding Pay
year: '1794'
---



Major Joseph Howel
Acct of the War Office
Philadelphia
From W. Steel
Salisbury 5 Feb 94
Salisbury Feby 5th [ripped page]
Sir,
The inclosed accompt is Mr. Whites demand against the United States, according to his statement the ballance is one hundred dollars. Though I have no [doubt?] that he performed service, and hath n[undecipherable] yet been reimbursed, candor obliges me to ad[undecipherable] that a disagreement exists between Capt. Kerr and the claimant respecting the number of days the waggon and team were actually employed.
Mr. Whites demand commences from the day of contract and Capt. Kerr thinks he only deserved payment from the day the waggon started for Knoxville.
Then different modes of computing make a difference of about 20 dollars. I suppose no difficulty can attend this because Mr. White is entitled to the same measure that was meted to other waggoners, and no more. This I hope he will obtain as soon as possible, for I do assure you that he is a poor man, and a deserving one. Being involved in debt, his waggon, and te[undecipherable] levied upon for a demand which this claim is amply sufficient to pay, if he can obtain it. I will thank you to notify him, or myself [undecipherable] the inclosed voucher is sufficient, whether any thing further be required according to the established rules of the office, and what the ballance may be after final settlement. This being done he can obtain
the money herein for his bill to its amount.
I beg your pardon for giving you so much trouble in this affair, or indeed for interfereing at all in it---Nothing but a desire to serve a poor neighbour who is in distress, induced me to interfere and your polite attention to my other letter demands my sincere acknowledgment.
I have the honor to be Sir,
Your Most Obedient & Obliged servant
Jno Steele
I understand one of Capt. Kerrs letters dated in May last will show how many days service he admitted, and will probably throw More lights on this transaction. His letters I suppose are in the office.
J.S.
Major Joseph Howel
Accot. of the War Office
