---
authors:
- Anthony Wayne
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:04+00:00'
day: '20'
description: Wayne's spies have captured a man whose testimony makes Wayne believe the Indians do not desire peace, and are assembling to receive arms, ammunition, clothing, etc. from the British Indian
  agent Col. McKee.  Meanwhile the Legion is melting away as enlistments expire.  Laments that Congress has defeated a bill which would have provided new recruits for the Legion.  Plans to advance to hold
  Indians' attention away from frontier settlements & supply convoys, until the season had advanced to the point where the Kentucky dragoons and men from garrisons in the rear may be brought forward.  Current
  force ~2000 officers & men.  Hopes to utilize the 500 Kentucky volunteers and some Chickasaw Indians, but waits for orders before doing so.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1794032053555'
omeka_image_id: 22038
images:
- df2ec952bab113755fb9342016373f9f8993327e.jpg
- 976e3e77255b2c7858f3665b39190e208dab4a12.jpg
- 75a04433771ce54a9ad8f090f6316b650989c932.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- ammunition
- clothing
- enlistment
- supply convoys
- peace
- bill
notable_locations:
- Ohio
- garrisons
- Head Quarters, Greenville
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Anthony Wayne
- spies
- British Indian Agent
- Colonel McKee
- Legion
- congress
- recruits
- Kentucky dragoons
- Indians
- officers
- men
- Kentucky Volunteers
- Chickasaw Indians
- frontier settlements
- recruits
note: "Cited in Knox to Wayne, 1794051613000\r\n\r\nSpans Images 48-52 of this collection."
omeka_id: 46171
page_start: '48'
num_pages: '3'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Head Quarters, Greenville
title: Indians Appear to Be Preparing for Hostilities; Legion Manpower Problems
year: '1794'
---



HeadQuarters
Greenville 20 March 1794
Sir,
I have the honor to enclose the examination of a certain Christopher Miller who was captured by my spies on the 13th instant near the place called "French Stores" about halfway between Chilacothe & Girty's town as marked upon Genl. Harmars trace.
I also enclosed a copy of the recent correspondence between the Contractors & myself & instructions to the D. Q. M. General in consequence of the information given by the said prisoner & a variety of corroborating facts & circumstances, such as to produce the strongest conviction to my mind that Peace with the hostile Indians is at present totally out of the question; and that the real object of the flag was to reconnoitre our position & letter of from them with solemn assurances of sincerity I could not consistently reject it.
The Enemy are now assembling in force, & will constantly increase in numbers from the positive promise of a plentiful supply of provisions, arms, ammunition & clothing (at the [Cost?] of the rapids) on the part of the British Indian Agent Colo. McKee: whilst the army will melt away to an alarming degree in the course of a few weeks from the daily expiration of the term of Inlistments, as you will see by the enclosed return of the 1st & 2d Sub-Legions.
We had at one period a most flattering prospect of reengaging the greater proportion of those veterans, by the encouragement held out "in the Bill for the completion and letter support of the military establishment of the United States": But the unqualified negative to that bill by the Senate has put a total check to the recruiting service at this place & leaves but little ground to hope for speedy & effectual re-enforcement from any other quarter.
In the interim, the savages are most certainly preparing for active and and desultory operation; and the season is fast approaching when the leaves will afford them coverts for ambush & surprise.
I shall therefore make every preparation for taking ground in front by establishing a post on Au Glaize, at the north end of the portage as mentioned in my letter of the 3d instant as soon as the waters & circumstances will permit.
This is a business that will require caution & address & perhaps occasion an arm dispute for the occupancy, - but something must be hazarded in order to draw the attention of the enemy from our escorts & to prevent massacre & desolation upon the frontiers, until the season will be so far advanced as to afford a sufficiency of grass in the prairies & woods to supposition Cavalry Pack horses & cattle, and to gain time to increase our magazine of provisions and to collect & bring forward the squadron of Dragoons cantoned in Kentucky; also the soldiery fit for actual service from the respective Garrisons Garrisons preparatory to offensive operations.
The aggregate of our effective regular force by the most exact calculations when drawn to a focus will not exceed Two thousand men officers included; & even that number will be daily diminishing from the cause already mentioned, i.e. the expiration of the term of service for which more than one half of the soldiery belonging to the 1st & 2d SubLegions were enlisted.
From this statement of facts you will readily conceive & clearly see the absolute necessity of some immediate & effective measures to increase our numbers.
I have had in contemplation to call our five hundred mounted volunteers from Kentucky; & to employ a number of Chicasaw Indians: but as the National legislature are now in session, & not having been honored with any letter or orders from you since the 7 of December 1793, I have some doubts upon my mind respecting the propriety of the measure; and have therefore determined to wait for further orders upon the occasion - and in the interim to employ the the Legion to the best possible advantage for the honor & interest of the United States & the security of the frontier inhabitants.
Should a general action be eventually necessary to embrace those objects - it will not be evaded when a favorable opportunity presents.
I have the honor to be with every sentiment of esteem & respect your most obedt. & very Huml Servt
/sd/ A Wayne
The Honble Maj. Gen. H Knox Secy of War
