---
authors:
- Anthony Wayne
collection_id: 969
collections:
- Archive Reports 1891
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:05+00:00'
day: '26'
description: Investigation reports on the death of Captain Bigtree enclosed, with details.  Possibly linked to other deaths by the hostile Indians.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1794032690101'
omeka_image_id: 18448
images:
- f3ae66dd74107678becfbaa880cc64a684999de2.jpg
- 754605454982e364ae4402d41d21b08d667e1da0.jpg
- 38055f7a839df6ae6c60a24861345f8d5633a3b2.jpg
- 4ac9045d2ec7a7f1a71faf24fbaefcd04e03e96b.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- horses
- treaty
- clothing
- rifles
notable_locations:
- Greenville
notable_persons:
- Anthony Wayne
- Captain Bigtree
- Six Nations
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- Rosencrantz
- Delawares
- commissioners
- thirteen fires
- New Arrow
- hostile Indians
omeka_id: 46219
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Chiefs Six Nations
repositories:
- 'National Archives of Canada: Archives and Government Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Greenville
title: Suspicious Death of Captain Bigtree
year: '1794'
---



225
Copy
General Wayne's Speech to all the Sachems, Chiefs & Warriors of the Six Nations
Brothers, 
We have all to lament the unfortunate death of Captain Bigtree who put an end to his own existence about two months since.  I made every enquiry into the cause of his death, and ordered thirteen of my Warriors to examine the body and give me their opinion in writing under their hands and seal, which I now send to you by our friend Mr. Rosecrantz.
A few days after his arrival three Delawares arrived at this cantonment with a flag and a message from the hostile Indians proposing to me to fix a time and place for holding a treaty in order to agree upon the terms on which peace should be made.  I now send you a copy of that message together with my answer which will be delivered to you by Mr. Rosecrantz.  
Captain Bigtree was present and heard the message from the hostile Indians to me, and my answer to that message.  
I then made this short speech to the Delaware Messengers. 
Nephews
I call you, because you have always acknowledged the Six Nations your uncles.  I am pleased to find that your pride is lowered
226
lowered and that you begin to come to your reason, you were too proud last Summer to listen to the commissioners of the thirteen fires and your Uncles.  
I will only just inform you that the voice of the Thirteen fires is the voice of the Six Nations, therefore tell your Chiefs and Warriors to listen to the voice of their great chiefs tell them immediately to comply with his demands and deliver up all the Prisoners within the course of thirty Days, and not to neglect, if they wish to see their children grow up to be Men and Women.  
That same night Captain Bigtree had some angry talk with the Delawares whether he ate or drank with them, afterwards, or whether they gave him something that put him out of his reason afterwards I can not tell, but certain it is that from that time to the moment of his Death he was melancholy and deranged untill the last moment of his death when stabing himself with his own knife.  
Brothers, 
I have now told you everything that has taken place and all that was said to and with the hostile Indians, since which I have not heard nor seen anything further from them except that they murder our People and steal our Horses whenever they have an opportunity, so that all prospect of peace is now done away I have therefore every
227 
every reason to believe that the only object the hostile Indians had in view was to reconnoitre our Situation and to see our numbers and to gain time to collect their Warriors from their different hunting camps in order to fight us and continue the War. 
Brothers, 
I was informed by Captain Bigtree that many of your People had died last Summer in consequence of something you had eat, when at the council with the hostile Indians at the Rapids of the Miami of the Lake and that my friend & brother the New Arrow is among the dead; and that my good friend Captain O'Bole was also near dying for which heart has been sorry.  This mode of making War is cowardly and base, and Captain Bigtree was determined to have revenge had he lived - this they well know and are glad that he is dead.
Brother,
I have sent cloathing for the wife and Daughter of Captain Bigtree by Mr. Rosecrantz and a Suit of Mourning for his two Brothers and a Rifle to each.
I have also ordered the Commanding Officer of Fort Frankling to Build a House for them and to give them plenty of Provisions and everything they may want and to provide for & take care of them. 
(signed) Anthony Wayne, Major General & Commander in Chief of the Legion of the United States D
228 
Grenville 26th March 1794
Endorsed: B
Tn Lord Dorchester's No 42 to Mr. Dundas of the 28th July 1794
