---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 994
collections:
- Executive Communications
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:05+00:00'
day: '28'
description: Secretary Knox transmits a representation made to President Washington to Governor Thomas Mifflin of Pennsylvania. There are complaints of the murder of some friendly Indians one month ago,
  who had been trading at the Block house on Big Beaver Creek in Pennsylvania. Mentions that the "good Citizens of the frontiers" consider the act to be "an Attrocious murder, and Deserving of the severest
  punishment." Major General Arthur St. Clair will be instructed to enquire into the facts and to "disapprove of the murder in the strongest terms." States that the punishment of the murderers does not
  belong with the federal government, but rather the state government of Pennsylvania.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794032800201'
omeka_image_id: 20592
images:
- be734d7502d7d3f2dc67974cf2308b54ac749b6f.jpg
- 800ba9d589367af4c4c7d1e6cada70921b2bccbe.jpg
- 175a824c2d557fb80a41178bbb28fe102846affb.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- murder
- punishment
- guilty
- peace
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Beaver Creek
- Pittsburgh
- Big Beaver Creek
- Blockhouse
- trading post
- Pennsylvania
notable_persons:
- Thomas Mifflin
- Henry Knox
- cornplanter
- Corn planter
- Seneca
- chief
- Indians
- Arthur St. Clair
omeka_id: 46225
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Thomas Mifflin
repositories:
- 'Virginia State Library: Archives and Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Murder of friendly Indians
year: '1794'
---



No. 1.
From the Secretary at War
To
The Governor
Respecting the murder of certain Indians at Beaver Creek
1791
91
March 28th
War Department
28 of March 1791
Sir
I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency, a Representation made to the President of the United States by the Cornplanter, a Seneca Chief, upon the subject of the murder of some friendly Indians on the ninth instant, who had been tradeing at the Block house; on Big Beaver Creek within this State. It would appear both from the Representations of the Cornplanter, and the information of Persons of Respectable characters at Pittsburgh and its neighbourhood, herein inclosed, whose names it might not be proper to make public, that the Act of killing the Indians aforesaid, is considered by the good citizens of the frontiers as an attocious murder; and deserving of the severest punishment.
If such crimes as the murder of friendly Indians should be suffered to pass off with impunity, the endeavors of the United States, to establish peace on terms of Justice and humanity will be in vain; A General Indian War will be excited in which the opinions of the enlightened and impartial part of mankind will be opposed to us, and the Blood and Treasures of the Nations will be exposed, in the accomplishment of measures degrading to its character.
To avoid such Deplorable consequences, every exertion will
will be immediately made within the power of the General Government
Major General St Clair will be instructed to enquire into the facts, and finding them as represented, to call the relations of the deceased Indians together, to disavow and disapprove of the murder in the strongest terms, - to assure the Indians that every measure authorised by the Laws, will be immediately taken to bring the murderers to condign punishment, and to make the said relations entire compensations, for the Loss of the Horses and property taken from the murdered indians.
But the punishment of the Murderers will not belong to the General government. The crime having been committed within the jurisdiction of the State of Pennsylvania is to be tried by its Laws. No doubt can arise that your Excellency will view the transaction in its proper light, and that you will demand the accused of the State of Virginia, according to the constitution of the United States, or take such other measures on the occasion, as you may judge proper.
I have the honor to be with great Respect
your most obedient
Servant 
Henry Knox 
Secty of War
His Excellency 
The Governor of Pennsylvania
Copy A. I. Dallas 
Secretary of the Comr. of Pena
