---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 983
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:05+00:00'
day: '31'
description: Knox warns Wayne of the evil intentions of some Americans to invade Spanish territory and orders him to establish a post at Fort Massac to prevent--peacefully if possible, violently if necessary--such
  incursions.
doc_types:
- Extract of Letter
document_number: '1794033100366'
omeka_image_id: 12502
images:
- 1c3878472376adba11303b461750140b6030629b.jpg
month: '03'
notable_persons:
- Anthony Wayne
- Henry Knox
note: Cited in Wayne to Knox, 05/07/1794. This document is also found  in A Message from the President of the United States to Congress, transmitting certain documents relative to hostile threats against
  the territories of Spain, in the neighbourhood of the United States.
omeka_id: 46241
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
title: Unlawful American Incursions into Spanish Territory
year: '1794'
---



Extract of a Letter from the Secretary of War
to Major General Wayne, dated 31st March 1794~
The idea of a Post to be established
at Fort Massac was held forth on the seventeenth of
198.
May last, and left optional with you - But cer-
tain circumstances at that time prevented your
adopting the idea. The late intention of some
restless People of the frontier settlements to make
hostile inroads into the dominions of Spain [infinity symbol with an open right end]
renders it indispensable that you should imme-
diately order as respectable a detachment as you
can to take post at Fort Massac and to erect a
strong redoubt and Block house with some [infinity symbol with an open right end]
suitable Cannon from Fort Washington.
The officer who should com-
mand ought to be a Man of approved integri-
ty, firmness and prudence.
"Besides the directions for
erecting the works, the supplies, discipline and
police of his garrison, he ought to be instructed
somewhat in the following manner.
Secret and Confidential. It
has not been unknown to you that a number 
of lawless People residing on the Waters of the 
Ohio in defiance of the National authority [infinity symbol with an open right end]
have entertained the daring design of inva-
ding the territories of Spain. The atrocity of
this measure and its probable affects are
pointed out in the Proclamation of the -
President of the United States herewith [~ with two short downward marks crossing its center]
199
delivered to you.
"If this design should be persisted in
or hearafter revived and any such Parties should make
their appearance in the neighbourhood of your Garrison,
and you should be well informed that they are armed
and equipped for war and entertain the criminal in-
tention described in the President's Proclamation you
are to send to them some Persons in whose veracity [unclear symbol resembles OK]
you could confide and if such Person should be a Peace -
Officer, he would be the most proper Messenger and
warn them of their evil proceedings and forbid their
attempting to pass the Fort at their peril. But if not
withstanding every peaceable effort to persuade them 
to abandon their criminal design they should still 
persist in their attempts to pass down the Ohio, you
are to use every military means in your power for
preventing them and for which this shall be your
sufficient justification, provided you have taken all 
the pacific steps before directed."

Extract of a Letter from the Secretary of War to Major General e Anthony Wayne
dated
War Department March 31st
1794
"It is with great pleasure Sir that I transmit you the approbation of the Presi-dent of the United States of your conduct generally since you have had the command and more particularly for the judicious and military formation and discipline of the Troops, the precautions you appear to have taken in your advance, in your fortified camps, and in your arrangements to have full and abundant supplies of provisions on hand. Continue Sir to proceed in this manner and your succefs will be certain -"
True Extract from the Records of the War Office of the United States - 
[undecipherable] Stagg [undecipherable]
Chf Clerk
Extract of a Letter from the Secretary of War to Major General Wayne dated 
"War Department March 31 1794 
"It is with great pleasure Sir, that I transmit you the approbation of the President of the United States of your conduct generally since you have had the command and more particularly for the judicious and military formation and discipline of the troops the precautions you appear to have taken in your advances in your fortified camps and in your arrangements to have full and abundant supplies of provisions on hand. [two identical undecipherable symbols]" __
The foregoing are extract from the records in the War Office. [undecipherable} Jones. Clk to [undecipherable]
