---
authors:
- Daniel Sargent
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:07+00:00'
day: '12'
description: Bill of Lading for Winthrop Sargent's trunk,  transported to the care of Samuel Hodgdon on board the sloop Abby, under Captain Samuel Eames.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1794041290001'
omeka_image_id: 15335
images:
- ba46a991d7777d9b91f21876895a22cbd678a630.jpg
- ce24fa758a2f46760ccee67d43b0eada22ddf020.jpg
- db32752be77cb732b36131e2503cd318d5757d07.jpg
- 7f549c625849437d9c04112c4ee2aeb3cf50bf06.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- Danger of the Seas
- sloop Abby
- trunk
- bill of lading
- rug
- trunk cover
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Boston
- Boston Harbor
notable_persons:
- Colonel Samuel Hodgdon
- Daniel Sargent Jr.
- Master or Purser of the said sloop
- cousin
- Winthrop Sargent
- Judith Sargent Murray
- Colonel Sargent
note: Enclosed in Sargent to Hodgdon, 04/12/1794.
omeka_id: 46375
page_start: '4'
recipients:
- Samuel Eames
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Bill of Lading for Winthrop Sargent's Trunk
year: '1794'
---



[editor's note: the document was originally folded and text appears in two locations, perpendicular to each other when unfolded]
Boston April 12th 1794
Col.Samuel Hodgdon
Philadelphia
Sir
At the Request of Mrs Murray  (Col. Sargent's Sister) I take the liberty to consign to your Care a Trunk for my Cousin Winthrop Sargent at Philadelphia _ I have ship it on board the Sloop Abby Capt Samuel Eames as per the enclos Bill of Lading and beg the favour of you to deliver it to my Cousin; or in case of his absence take care of it 'till you may hear further respecting it; unless he should have given some directions with regard to its disposal. If not too much trouble, would thank you for in advance.
I am with much Respect Sir
Your humble Servant
Daniel Sargent junr
[editor's note: Stamped "Received from State Dep't . Nov. 24, 1894. R.P.O. 401310."]
[editor's note: the following text is  perpendicular to previous text; "4" stamped at the top]
Coll.. Saml.. Hodgdon
To Sloop Abby 
Capt. Eames
Philadelphia
Letter from Daniel Sargent _12th April
1794
Recd 1st May 1794
[editor's note: "26" handwritten within a circle]
[editor's note: same State Department stamp as previously noted]
[editor's note: the following is a printed bill of lading filled in with handwritten information indicated within parentheses]
Shipped in good Order and well conditioned by "Daniel Sargent Jr" in and upon the "Sloop" called the "Abby" whereon is Master, for this present Voyage, "Samuel Eames" now riding at Anchor in the "Harbor of Boston" and bound for "Philadelphia" To say, "One Trunk cover with a Rug and directed to Col' Winthrop Sargent to the Care of Col.' Samuel Hodgdon at Philadelphia" being marked and numbered as in the Margin, and are to be delivered in the like good Order and well conditioned, at the aforesaid Port of "Philadelphia" (the Danger of the Seas only excepted} unto "Col. Samuel Hodgdon" or to "his" Assigns, he or they paying Freight, for the said Goods "According to Custom _ Two Dollars _" with Primage and Average accustomed. In witness whereof the Master or Porter of the said "Sloop" hath affirmed to "three" Bills of Lading, all of this Tenor and Date; the One of which "three" Bills being accomplished, the other "two" to stand void. Dated in "Boston April 12th 1794"
[editor's note: the following are handwritten at the bottom of this paper:]
Contents Unknown
Samuel Eames
[editor's note: marginal handwritten notes to the left of the above text]
One Trunk cover with a Rug directed to Coll Winthrop Sargent to the Care of Col. Saml Hodgdon Philadelphia
[editor's note: the reverse side of document 1 is stamped as follows]
Received from State Dep't. Nov. 24, 1894. R.P.O. 401310.
