---
authors:
- Joseph Perkin
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:09+00:00'
day: '27'
description: Milligan has not yet arrived from Philadelphia. Hodgdon should make inquiries to see if he still in that city because Perkins is concerned that he has not yet spent the money and therefore
  cannot proceed. (Many other matters are discussed.)
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794042780001'
omeka_image_id: 15460
images:
- 65942026e0eb0a33ce15653f597efd0cb8bd5ba9.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- vessel
- the first wagon
- stores
- mill
- 3 wagons
- coal from the mine
- bayonets
- muskets
- tools
- tools and implements
notable_locations:
- New London
- Richmond
- public armory
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Joseph Perkins
- Messrs. Nicolson and Taylor
- Dunneigh [?]
- Clark
- Bedford and Spratt
- Mr. Miles' son
- Mr. Williams
- my own boys
- Mr. Holt
- Jesse Lawter [?]
omeka_id: 46479
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New London
title: On the whereabouts of Milligan
year: '1794'
---



New - London. A[ril 27th 1794 - 
[stamp:]
Received
from State Dep't.
Nov. 24. 1894.
R.P.O. 401310.

Dear Sir
Having at length an opertunity of a convance to Richmond I here by inform you that I arrived here on the 7th Inst. in nine days from Phiadelphia. I reached to Richmond on the 4.th and immediately waited on Messers Nicolson & Taylor but as the Vessel was not arrived I thought it most prudent to proceed to this place in order to ingage the first wagon that might be going to bring up the Stoors, but as yet no opertunity hath ofered nor [undecipherable] any thing wether they are arrived or [undecipherable] Benjaman Worthington arrived here four days before me. But Mailligan who left Philadelphia 3 days after him is not yet arrived. I wish you would make some inquirey if he is in Philadelphia, as I am in fear that he hath spent the money and not be able to proceed I found things here not in as good a Situation as I could wish Wm Dunnuck is lame and is yet not able to work. Wm Clark given to his old habet of drinking and neglect of business Bedford & Spratt very little better. I shall keep a strict account of their time Mr Miles & son & Mr Williams with my own boys are my princpal
Dependance I hope by degrees to be inhabled [cull?] out such as I find not to answear.
PS since writeing the above, the old man & his son who came round with the Vessel are arrived. Mr Holt hath engaged a mill which I mean to have immediately filed for our use he hath also engageed 3 wagons to fetch Coal from the mines when it arrives I shall begin to make Boynetts and rammers of which we are much in want having a number of muskets repaired which cant be delivered for want of these articcles. Jesse Lawton with whom I informed you I was displeased dissatisfid hath determined to return to Philadelphia he is no workman yet would [undecipherable / editor's note: one entire line is missing, from a creased tear in the paper] of performing I have reason to think he had persuaded some of the hands to run off with him, but on my asureing them that if they went to Philadelphia they should be imprisoned I am inclined to think they have quit their intentions he intends seting of from here in the morning, he will call on you for the pay due him, I think he ought to refund the expence of his journey from Philadelphia to this place if so he will have nothing to receive. Magor Holt had closed his letter before this affair came out. I have had not time Since my return of the tools & Impliments used in the publick armoury here but mean to do it next month. 
I am Sir with much esteem your most obedient
humble Servant
Joseph Perkin
