---
authors:
- Samuel Ogden
collection_id: 871
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers.  [microfilm]
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:14+00:00'
day: '27'
description: Samuel Ogden writes Secretary Knox, discussing the dispute with England over western boundaries. Also describes the military activity of Britain in the United States and Canada, focusing on
  New York, Pennsylvania, and Ontario.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794052740301'
omeka_image_id: 6647
images:
- a2dfb421b5006e12208ef01d2e4330b7c6421cfd.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- militia
- upper ports
- settlements
- reinforcements
- vessels
- western lakes
- British court
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Newark
- Toronto
- Quebec
- Prince Edwards
- Montreal
- Dutchman's Point
- Chambler
- St. John's
- Kingston
- Mouth of Chipaway River
- Fort Erie
- Detroit
- Canada
- England
- Oswego
- Niagara
- Ontario
- Genesee River
- Presque Isle
- Ohio River
- United States
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Samuel Ogden
- Mrs. Ogden
- Lucy Knox
- John Graves Simcoe
- wife
omeka_id: 46748
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- Pierpont Morgan Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Newark
title: British military activity
year: '1794'
---



Newark 27, May}    Free
Genl Henry Knox, Secretary at War Philadelphia
2624 813 XXXV-119
My dear Sir Saml Ogden 
Newark May 27th 1794
By a comparison of circumstances, I am led to fear  the British Court intend to wage War against the United States!  The great  object of which is the alteration of our Western boundry line; so that their territory shall embrace all the Western Lakes, and confine our limits  to the Ohio River.  If this Idea is well founded, their next step will be to take Possession of Presque Isle, and there establish a Post;  by which we shall be deprived of all access to Lake Erie, and it is not improbable they may in time attempt an establishment at the Mouth of the Genesee  River.  The latter Position will from its vincinity to our settlements  require a larger force than they at present can spare.  But should sufficient reinforcements arrive from England they cannot seize on a spot more favorable for their purposes.  It being the only harbor for vessels of burden from Oswego to Niagara, and a very commanding position; would complete their possession of the Ontario.
After my return last Autumn I believe I gave you an account of the Troops in Canada.  If I did not I now tell you these were then at Quebec - 1 Regiment, Prince Edwards, [right margin 1] 1 at Montreal, Chambler, St. Johns, Ile Au Noix, Point a [Terre?], and Dutchmans Point (Oswego & Kingston) [right margin 2] [equation: 1 + 2 = 3]
Regiments brought over - 3
at Niagara, Mouth of Chipaway River Forts Erie and [Slusher? or Schlosser] } 1
at Detroit and the upper Ports    1
and Govenor Simcox's at Torunto (on the Northwest side of the Ontario opposite Niagara} 1
[Total] 6 Regts
I should suppose the average cannot amount to more than 350 men each.  
The Millitia of Upper Canada, may be found in case of a war, some what formidable; But as to that of lower Canada it cannot be considered as important.  
Mrs. Ogdens, health is not so good as usual she joins in regards to Mrs. Knox & Family with Yours unalterably, Samuel Ogden
Gen. Knox
