---
authors:
- William Rickard
collection_id: 771
collections:
- Fred Manning Collection of Documents from Various Series in RG217. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:16+00:00'
day: '05'
description: Need guidance on how to file muster rolls.  Additionally, mutineers now detained in irons, threatened the life of two men and gave goods to Indians.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794060590101'
omeka_image_id: 7664
images:
- 949a885175d4210639dcb3606e1f350676c0e181.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- clothing
- instructions
- muster
- muster rolls
- inspection
- provisions
- linen overalls
- sergeant's clothing
- music's clothing
- woolens
- medicine
- bottles
- leak
- elister pipe
- medicine chest
- threaten the life
notable_locations:
- Knoxville
- Cumberland
- Territory Southwest of Ohio River
- Tennessee
- New London
- Virginia
notable_persons:
- David Henley
- William Rickard
- mutineers
- Indians
- agent war department
- militia
- Colonel Hays
- Colonel Hayes
- troops
- soldiers
- company
- Ensign Davidson
- McKee
note: Enclosed in Rickard to Henley, 06/05/1794.
omeka_id: 46815
page_start: '5'
recipients:
- David Henley
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Knoxville
title: '[PRIVATE] Request for Instructions'
year: '1794'
---



David Henly esquire
Agent of the War Department
Territory Sth Wes of the Ohio
Philadelphia  
Knoxville
5 June 1794
Wm Rickard
Knoxville June 5th 1794
Sir
Inclosed are the Muster Rolls, Inspections and Provisions for the present Month.  
On the 2d instant I received part of the Company cloathing, and a Medicine Chest. The remainder and most material part of the cloathing are yet at, or near New London in Virginia such as the Shirts, Hatts, Vests, and the Serjeants and Music's cloathing. 
I have engaged a Man of a good name to bring them on in Seven Weeks to be at this place.  Forty seven pairs of Linen Overalls Twenty two pairs of Woollens and six Blankets are unfit for service by being wet and ruined on the roads. 
A considerable part of the Medicine has leaked out of the Bottles and no Tube to the Elister pipe sent in
the Medicine Chest. 
I continue to file the Muster Rolls of the Militia in your Office as usual 
I am Sir 
with respect and esteem
Your Obt. Servant
Wm Rickard. 
David Henley esquire
Agent of the War Department
Knoxville 3 June 1794
William Rickard 
David Henly Esqr
Private
June 5th 94
Colonel Henly -
I want your directions respecting the Militia Muster Rolls of this place as well as a large bundle from Colonel Hayes of Cumberland received in April last - 
My cloathing are detained on the road - & the troops have not less than eleven months pay due - The militia about four or five hundred in number - Requested, partly demanded two mutineers confined in irons to be liberated policy dictated my compliance --  Fine times  -- these mutineers were two soldiers of my company who threatened the life of Enss Davidson & McKee gave a few articles to some indians which was the cause -- this news is not wrote you in an official manner - 
I am with respect 
Your friend
Wm Rickard
