---
authors:
- Anthony Wayne
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:16+00:00'
day: '10'
description: Discusses calling for and paying the Kentucky mounted volunteers, complicated by the fact that they will not accept banknotes.  Mentions preliminary prods at outlying Indian settlements, and
  that they appear to be assembling for an offensive while under the protection of a British post.  Laments the complications the British have precipitated in the campaign against the Indians, but believes
  the British will not actually attack the Americans without specific orders to do so.  Also mourns that the bill for filling out the Legion, if not defeated, would have precluded the need for the Kentucky
  volunteers, and provided more reliable soldiers.  Does expect 2000 volunteers from Kentucky soon.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1794061053555'
omeka_image_id: 22038
images:
- 6e2c1ebe66bd064631afa0cf3c811cafa66206ec.jpg
- 4c41e4cf2174d6184d1d88bd4c48cd98273d41e4.jpg
- cbfbad0eafa69556eab8007f449d621a7f1b859f.jpg
- c703be83f235fc1e856f23b9ebfae3b16758d30f.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- recruiting
- banknotes
- payment
- species
- property
- garrison
- British protection
- supplies
notable_locations:
- Fort Washington
- Ohio
- Greenville
- Kentucky
- Miami of the Lake
- Grand Glaize
- Rochedebout
- Miami Villages
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Anthony Wayne
- Secretary of War
- Major General Scott
- mounted volunteers
- Indians
- British
- Legion
- Kentucky Volunteers
- soldiers
- officers
- field officers
- Captain Edward Butler
- paymaster general
- sub legionary paymaster
- inspector
- Captain Alexander Gibson
- savages
- Major McMahon
- Mr. Simcoe
- hostile Indians
- contractors
note: "Cited in Knox to Wayne, 12/05/1794.\r\n\r\nSpans Images 65-70 of this collection"
omeka_id: 46854
page_start: '65'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Greenville
title: Kentucky Volunteers Issues; Complications Caused by British
year: '1794'
---



No. 78   To Major Genl H. Knox

                        Sec<seup>y</sup> of War
     ___________________________________________
     ___________________________________________

                             Head Quarters
                          Greneville 10 June 1794

Sir,

      I have the honor to acknowledge the 

receipt of your letter of the 16 & 19 ultimo with their
several enclosures by Major General Scott who arrived
at Fort Washington on the 5 instant, as announced in 
the enclosed copy of a letter from him of that date.

      I had in a great measure anticipated

your instructions in calling for the mounted volun=
teers of Kentucky as mentioned in my letter of the 26
ultimo, a duplicate of which with its enclosures are
& are herewith transmitted - by these you will
perceive that I had nearly embraced your
idea of the organization & mode of appointment
of the Field & other Officers; and as it's more than
probable that considerable progress has by this
time been made in recruiting the number of
Volunteers therein mentioned agreeably to that
organization, perhaps it may as well remain
without alteration except as to the time of service
& the advance pay, which will not admit of a
discrimination.

             The only thing we have to apprehend

is this fact that the people of Kentucky have
refused to accept of bank notes in payment
for any species of property.- it is however possi=
ble that the volunteers may not be quite so
scrupulous. -the experiment shall however be
immediately tried for which purpose I have
ordered Capt. Edwd Butler to repair to Kentucky
in order to muster & pay the advance to the  vo=
lunteers agreeably to your instructions with this
difference, that he is directed to officiate both as
Inspector & Paymaster for want of Officers as the
Paymaster General & all the SubLegionary paymasters are
are busily employed in making out & examining
the pay & muster rolls of the Legion. --

   In addition to the corroborating in=

telligence received by several routes of the intrigues
& manoeuvres of the British with respect to the
present indian war, -- I have the honor  of 
transmitting the examination of two Putawatime
warriors taken on the 5th inst. on the north side
of the Miami of the Lake near Grand Glaize, by
Capt. Alexr. Gibson who I directed to strike at a
Delaware town fifteen miles above that place
in order to gain intelligence but the savages 
abandoned it upon his approach.

    I sent Major McMahon at this same 

time to strike at a small village or settlement in 
the vicinity of Rochedebout which was also re=
cently abandoned.-

    In fact, the savages appear to have

been panic struck at the mode & manner of our ad=
vance; and are now collected in force at Rochedebout
& Grand Glaize under the protection of the British,
preparatory to offensive operation at the time men=
tioned in the enclosed Examination. 

    I however cannot think that Mr.

Simcoe will dare to advance to attack us unless
unless he has received positive orders for the
purpose; but his having taken post in the center 
of the Hostile Indians & so far within our acknow=
ledged limits would justify the idea that some
such orders have been given.

     At all events, the act of fortifying at

that place & endowing it with a strong Garrison
& Artillery is most certainly an aggression of the
highest nature, as it must evidently give confi=
dence to the savages & stimulate them to continue
the present distressing war. - hence I am
placed in a very delicate & disagreeable situation
- the very point at which I premeditated a
severe stroke, i.e the center of the hostile tribes,
the British are now in possession of, probably
with a view to provoke what they would with [undecdipherable]
declare an aggression upon our part
were we to make an attempt against that quarter
altho not in their occupancy until surreptitiously & 
nefariously obtained the other way. 

          The distance from Rochedebout

to this place is about 75 or 80 miles & situate 
immediately upon our right flank in advancing
to the old Miami villages, now totally abandoned
by the savages. - In fact, all the hostile indians are
are already drove "to the north side of the [undecipherable]
of the lake", under the protection of the British at 
Grand Glaize & Rochedebout as before mentioned
the latter place will serve as an asylum from
whence the savages may carry on a distressing and
desultory war & retreat to for protection occasion=
ally.

   I have an idea from the disposition, zeal 

& temerity of Mr. Simcoe, that he may easily be tempted
to relieve me from this state of embarrassment, when
I trust that he will not have much cause to triumph
from the interview, provided we are timely & properly 
supported by the mounted volunteers of Kentucky,
who under present circumstances I have deemed
expedient to call out agreeably to the extent
of the number contemplated in your official
instructions upon that subject.-

   It is much to be regretted that

early & proper measures were not adopted by the
national legislature for the completion of the Legion.
The expense attending two thousand volunteers for
four months would have been more than adequate
to the purpose & precluded the necessity of this un=
certain auxiliary force, besides the advantage of
three yeaqrs service of regulars in place of
four months of militia - would to God! that this had been the 
case at this trying hour - however I will
will hope & act for the best.

   I have with the utmost perserverance at

length compelled the contractors to agree to a co-opera=
tion of their whole means of transport with that of the
Quartermaster Generals, so as to accumulate a proper
magazine of supplies to justify a forward move on
the 1st of July as you will observe by the enclosed
copies of letters upon this interesting subject.

   I have also the honor of enclosing

you the General monthly return for May of the
Legion. - the aggregate of our effective operating
force wil not amount to two thousand combatants
after furnishing the necessary Garrisons, which will
generally be composed of invalids. - so that if we
are eventually reinforced by two thousand mounted
volunteers, the enemy will not be outnumbered 
if any reliance is to be placed in the intelligence
received from different quarters.- Yet, I donot
despair of success. -

   With every sentiment of esteem & respect
      I am 
           our most obedt & hum Servt              
                    A Wayne

the Honble Maj. Gen. Th Knox
secy of War
