---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 1053
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Letterbooks Vol.1-3
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:18+00:00'
day: '21'
description: Knox emphasizes the importance of the approaching campaign and warns that, since recruiting is at a standstill, dependence upon volunteers will be necessary. Relations between the US and Britain
  seem to be benign although there is still concern about the possible presence of British troops at Auglaize.
doc_types:
- Recipient's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1794062100155'
omeka_image_id: 22074
images:
- 62f091acfaab786d9a57adee0966e0513c4a65dc.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- no evidence of the hostile disposition of the said tribes
- murders
- dispatches by General Scott
- new plan
- abundant supply of provisions
- levies under Major Genl. Scott
- necessary caution and vigor
- boats
- recruiting
- Command at Pittsburgh
- appearances between the United States and Great Britain
- pacific
- state of the case at Auglaize
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Fort Franklin
- Gennese River
- Fort Massac
- Pittsburgh
- Fort Washington
- upper parts of the Ohio
- Great Britain
- Auglaize
notable_persons:
- Anthony Wayne
- Henry Knox
- Indians belonging to the Six Nations
- Genl Chapin
- bloodthirsty young scoundrels
- body of the Chiefs
- new French minister Mr. Fauchet
- General Scott
- Contractors
- Secretary of the Treasury
- Mr. Williams
- volunteers
- one hundred recruits
- Major Thos. Butler
- British troops
note: Spans Images 283-286 of this collection.
omeka_id: 46950
page_start: '283'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Knox Agrees That Volunteers Must Be Relied Upon, and That U.S.-British Relations Are Fragile
year: '1794'
---



N° 70
From Major General H. Knox
Secretary of War


War department
June 21st 1794
Sir
I have the honor to transmit
you inclosed a duplicate of mine to you of
the 7th instant. Since which I have received
yours of the 7th Ultimo.
Since my former letter two
men have been killed near fort Franklin
and it is said by Indians belonging to the
Six Nations. But we habe no evidence
of the hostile disposition of the sait tribes from
Genl. Chapin our agent at the Gennese River.
If any of the murders has been committed by
the said Indians it must have been by some
of the blood thirsty young Scoundrels and not
sanctioned by the body of the Chiefs.
I hope and believe there will be no
occasion for using the Garrison. Fort Massac.
The new French Minister Mr. Fauchet appears
as much as his predecessor was ill disposed.
We shall be all anxiety until we hear that
you have received the dispatches by General
Scott and that every thing is well arranged and
in train according to the instructions transmitted
by him.
Your correspondence with the Contacts
is under the consideration of the Secretary of
the treasury. Mr Williams is now in town
and has been urged if any Measures are still
wanting to give entire effect to the operations
upon the new fear in the line of provisions
that he would instantly do it.
I expect that you will be in
motion with all the levies under Major
Genl. Scott by the 13th or 20th of July at furthest
I hope you will have taken effectual
Methods to secure you an abundant spply of
provisions. That seems to be the pivot upon which 
all your operations turn.
It will I am persuaded
be entirely unnecessary to repeat to yo the
necessary caution and vigor both being compatible
and both being essential to your 
success. Much very much depends on your sucess 
this campaign whether retaining to the good
of our country or your own personal glory.
A Post is now established by boats to go
weekly between Pittsburg and Fort Washington
I shall therefore hope to hear from you
fully and frequently, and I shall also with
you as often as Matter occurs
You are to deend upon your
Volunteers-Recruiting seems almost at an end.
The appearances on the upper parts of the
Ohio has enfured a temporary suspension of
about one hndred Recounts in that quarter.
Major Thos. Buttler is ordered to take the
command at Pittsburgh.
Appearances between the
United Sates and Great Britain still continue pacific.
We have however still at a loss to
know precisely the State of the can at An-Glaize 
that is whether British  Troops are
actually posted there. We Daily hope for an 
explanation upon that Lead from you.
I have the hnor to be
with great esteem
Your obdt.
Hum. Servt.
IsdI H. Knox
Secretary of War
Major Genl. Wayne
