---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 712
collections:
- Henry Knox Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:23+00:00'
day: '03'
description: List of invalid pensioners, including name, rank, monthly allowance, time from which the pensions are to commence, and the amount of pension.
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1794070300001'
omeka_image_id: 20116
images:
- f67508d52de3a4643d0b1ca3befe6d1bec37ea45.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- Judges
- act of Congress
- invlaid pensioners
- rates
- pension
- pay
- funds
- dollars
- cents
- legal representatives
- annual pension
- money
- Treasury of the United States
- law
- half pay.
notable_locations:
- Massachusetts
- War Department
- Maine
- Massachusetts.
notable_persons:
- Nathaniel Appleton
- Henry Knox
- George Airs
- John Bean
- Dudley Bradstreet
- Squire Bishop, Jr
- Moses Cass
- Levi Chadbourn
- Seth Delano
- Peter Hapkins
- Joseph Roberts
- Benjamin thompson
- Ezekial Spaulding' Anthony Starbard
- James Crummitt' Daniel Horn
- William Lymms
- Silas Amsden
- Nathan Putnam
- Secretary of the Treasury
- Colonel John Crane
- Colonel Michael Jackson.
omeka_id: 47108
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Nathaniel Appleton
repositories:
- 'New York Public Library: Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Invalid Pension List
year: '1794'
---



War department July 3: 1794

Sir
In pursuance of an act of Congress passed the
last session entitled "An act concerning invalid pensioners"
you are hereby required to place upon the list of invalid
pensioners belonging to the state of Massachusetts theseveral persons herinafter named at the rates of
pension specified against their respective names, vis




 Names
 rank
 monthly allowance [dolls cts]
 Time from which the pensions are to commence
 Amount of pension up to the 24 June 1794  [dolls cts]


 George Airs
 Matross [Editor's Note: An artillery gunner's mate who assisted in loading, firing, and sponging the guns.]
 4.16
 Dec. 8.1792
 77.35


 John Bacon
 Corporal
 3.33
 June 22 1792
 80.22


 Dudley Bradstreet
 Private
 3.33
 do
 80.22


 Squire Bishop jr
 Private
 3.33
 do
 80.22


 Moses Cass
 Private
 3.33
 do
 80.22


 Levi Chadbourne
 Private
 3.33
 March 6. 1793
 52.-


 Seth Delans
 Serjeant
 2.67
 Sept. 6. 1792
 57.69


 Peter Hopkins
 Private
 3.33
 June 21. 1792
 80.33


 Joseph Roberts
 Carpenter [Editor's Note: (undecipherable) is under the word Carpenter.]
 5.-
 Feb. 11. 1793
 82.33


 Benjamin Thompson
 Lieut
 8.89
 June 25. 1792
 213.36


 Ezekiel Spaulding
 Serjeant
 2.-
 Sept. 6. 1792
 43.20


 Anthony Staiband
 Private
 3.33
 June 22, 1792
 80.22


 Noah Clough
 Private
 1.25
 Dec. 26. 1793
 7.41


 James Crummitt
 Private
 3.33
 Sept. 5.1793
 32.22


 William Foster
 Serjeant
 4.-
 Sept. 10. 1793
 38.-


 Daniel Horn
 Serjeant
 1.66
 Nov. 19. 1793
 12.-


 William Lymms
 Private
 3.12 1/2
 Octob. 24. 1793
 25.-


 Silas Amsden
 Private
 5._
 Aug. 28. 1793
 49.50


 Nathan Putnam
 Private
 -.412/3
 Nov. 1. 1793
 3.25





 Dollars
 1174.74

[Editor's note: a bracket is along left side of names and titled "District of Maine." It includes all but the last two names, Silas Amsden and Nathan Putnam.]
You are also hereby required to pay out of the funds to
be furnished you by the Secretary of the Treasury the
sum of One thousand one hundred and seventy four
Dollars, and seventy four Cents, to the abovenamed
invalid pensioners of the United States or their legal
representatives, according to the sums specified opposite
their names respectively, being for the amount of their
annual pension, commencing from the time of their
being returned by the Judges of Maine and Massachusetts
and ending the twenty fourth day of June 1794 inclu-
sively, for which payment this will be your sufficient warrant.
   
The Secretary of the Treasury has been requested
to furnish you with money-


   You will please to observe that Colonels John

Crane and Michael Jackson are hereafter to be
placed on the pension list, on condition that they
previously return into the Treasury of the United
States according to law such a proportion of the
commutation of half pay which they have received
as is equivalent to the rate of pension to be allowed
them, that is, Col. Crane to return half of his com-
mutation and Col. Jackson two thirds-


Given at the War Office of the United States, this third day of July 1794


   T X 
Secy of War

Nathaniel Appleton Esq
Commissioner of Loans for the State
of Massachusetts
