---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:25+00:00'
day: 08
description: Craig is drawing on Hodgdon $633 for John McIntire who furnished a quantity of forage sent to Fort Washington and sundry articles for the post at Wheeling.
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1794080821002'
omeka_image_id: 14356
images:
- 61f71d6a91ed46cfb7446b2914d420dec382aee6.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- bushel bags
- extract of his letter
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
- Philadelphia
- Greenville
notable_persons:
- Isaac Craig
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Quartermaster General
note: 'Enclosure: Extract of a letter from the Quartermaster General to Isaac Craig, 07/14/1794.'
omeka_id: 47256
page_start: '6'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Paying McIntire for Forage, Etc.
year: '1794'
---



Major Craig
8th August 1794
Bags wanted
[circled: 77]
[stamped: Received from State Dep't. Nov. 24. 1894. R.P.O. 401310] 

Samuel Hodgdon, Esqr
Philadelphia
[stamped: Received from State Dep't. Nov. 24. 1894. R.P.O. 401310
Pittsburg 8th August 1784
Dear Sir,
I have to inform you that I have yesterday taken the Liberty of drawing on you in favour of Mr. John McIntire of Wheeling for Six hundred and thirty three Dollars at ten days Sight, Mr. McIntire having furnished a quantity of Forage which has been sent to Fort Washington & also sundry articles for the post at Wheeling.  
I have this day received instructions from the Qm Genl to send him one thousand four Bushel Bags in addition to the 1000 last order.  I have enclosed you an Extract of his letter so far as it respects that article, and have to beg of you to Procure & send forward without delay five hundred bags of the quality & Capacity he mentions I shall endeavour to Procure the other 500 in this Country.  
I am Dear Sir 
Your very Obedt
Huml Servant
Isaac Craig
DQMG 
Saml Hodgdon Esqr
Philada
Extract of a Letter from the Qrm Genl Dated Greeneville 14th July 1794 to Isaac Craig Depy QrMGenl at Pittsburg -
I must now insist on your sending without one moments delay, 1000 four Bushel bags in addition to those formerly ordered, & shou'd you find any Difficulty in procuring them in the Western Country, you will have that number bought either Twill'd or made by the sail makers in Philadelphia of Top sail duck and sent foward as soon as possible.
