---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 699
collections:
- Dreer Collection
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:30+00:00'
day: '07'
description: Enclosed proclamation regarding the governing of the western parts of Pennsylvania, includes rules on militia.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794080700001'
omeka_image_id: 20455
images:
- d50e3cd6de0a2f6799ed78f0b3d5dba861c4abfc.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- Whiskey Rebellion
- insurrection
- Pennsylvania insurrection
- proclamation
- tents
- camp kettles
- articles
- camp equipage
- musket cartridges
- artillery
- ammunition
- rations
- supply
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Pennsylvania
- Virginia
- New Jersey
- Maryland
notable_persons:
- Henry Lee
- Henry Knox
- militia
- Secretary of War
- President Washington
- Governor Henry Lee
- Governor of Virginia
- officers
- non commissioned officers
- privates
- corps
- infantry
- cavalry
- troops
- Edmund Randolph
note: Cited in Hamilton to Lee, 09/03/1794.
omeka_id: 47531
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Lee
repositories:
- 'Historical Society Of Pennsylvania: Manuscript Department'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Orders for Organizing Militia
year: '1794'
---



Secretary at War
7 of August 94
relation to the Penn-sylvania insurrection

War department 

August 7. 1794

Sir,

The President of the United States after the most solemn deliberation
has deemed it incumbent upon him to issue the proclamation herein
enclosed and to take other legal measures for causing the laws of the United States to be duly
observed in the Western parts of the State of Pennsylvania according to the purport
of the said proclamation.

In pursuance of this determination he has directed me to request your
Excellency forthwith to issued your order for organizing and holding in readiness
to march at a moments warning a Corps of the Militia of Virginia amounting
to Three thousand three hundred non commissioned Officers and privates
with a due proportion of commissioned Officers according to my letter of the
19. May last armed and equipped as completely as possible with the articles
in possession of the State of Virginia or of the Individuals who shall compose
the Corps.

If however it should be impracticable to aim and equip
completely the said Corps, the deficiency will be furnished by the
United States on information thereof being transmitted to this Office, as
will also Tents, Camp Kettles, and other articles of Camp Equipage
and Musket Cartridges, Artillery and the Ammunition and Apparatus
thereunto belonging.

It is desired that the Corps should consist of Three thousand
Infantry and three thousand Cavalry. This is mentioned as a
general idea, but your Excellency will regulate its composition
according to the facility with which troops of different descriptions may
be obtained.

As

As soon as this Corps shall be in readiness your Excellency
will please to notify the same to this Ofice. The time and place
of rendezvous will be hereafter designated. The President defers
naming them at present and until the effect of certain pacific
measures which he is about trying with the deluded insurgents
shall be known.

An arrangement for furnishing Rations and other necessary
supplies will be hereafter notified.

The force to be called out will be according to the
following schedules.

{| class="wikitable"
|-
| 
| Infantry
| Cavalry
| Atillery
|-
| New Jersey
| 1500
| 500
| 100
|-
| Pennsylvania
| 4500
| 500
| 200
|-
| Maryland
| 2000
| 200
| 150
|-
| Virginia
| 3000
| 300
|
|-
| 
| 11.000
| 1500
| 450
| 12950
|}

I have the honor to be

with great respect

Your Excellency

obedient Servant

HKnox

Scy of War

His Excellency

The Governor of Virginia

[Enclosed: Newspaper Clipping from "By the President of the United States of America. A Proclamation," ''The Philadelphia Gazette,'' Thursday, 7th August, 1794]
