---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:30+00:00'
day: '03'
description: Astonished saddles and bridles were still missing,. Craig positive of their shipment by boat.  Possibility they were taken by Col. Edwards by mistake. Details on men assembled to attack fort
  and expel several gentlemen from Pittsburgh.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794080354101'
omeka_image_id: 21775
images:
- 0fd5c36870c24b4d53ca2e28ea9cb83539fc8054.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- saddle
- bridle
- boat
- stationary
- boxes
- bags
- clothing
- stationery
- Kentucky boat
- barn
- grain
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
- Lexington
- store house
- Fort Washington
- Kentucky
- Bradocks Field
- Monongahela
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Isaac Craig
- Mrs. O'Hara
- Colonel Edwards
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Gibson
- Nevill
- Neville
- Major Abraham Kirkpatrick
- General Meding
- Major Butler
- Colonel Nevill
- General Gibson
omeka_id: 47572
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Insurgents Attack
year: '1794'
---



Pittsburg 3d Aug 1794
Sir
I am this moment favored with your letter of the 14th ultimo covering one for W. OHara which I have handed her.  I am astonished you have not found the saddles and Bridles. & there is nothing that I can be more sure of than that I see them packed up in two Boxes at my door on Sunday morning & put on board the Boat.  But there is a possibility of Col Edwards carrying them with him to Lexington by mistake or of their being in your Store House at Fort Washington. [undecipherable] to be stationary and the [undecipherable] in Boxes that had formerly contained stationary. 
I shall immediately collect and forward all the Bags that can found in this Country & apply to M. Hodgson for the Balance of your requisition for that article.  A Kentuckey Boat now preparing will sett off in five days Carrying clothing & such other articles as are to be forwarded. 
On the [undecipherable] Instant, a numerous Body of Armed men assembled at Bradocks Fields & [undecipherable] there till Yesterday morning, their numbers increasing it in [undecipherable] to four thousand five Hundred, being Joined by a number of the Inhabitants of Pittsburg commenced their March about nine [undecipherable] Confidently [undecipherable] with a design of attacking the Fort.  But some of their leaders being informed that
Possible means had been taken for its defence, they prudently concluded to postpone the attack to some more favourable Opportunity.  I sent a Flag to inform the Commandant that the intended to march peaceably past the fort into Pittsburg & there Or up the monangohela & Return home.  Maj. [undecipherable] intimated to the flag that their peaceable intentions would be evinced by their passing the fort at a proper distance, they therefore took another road into Town [undecipherable] and
they asserted accomplished the objects of their Assembling viz. forming a union with the Inhabitants of Pittsburg Banishing several Gentleman inimical to their cause and proscribing several others 
who are also obliged to leave the this Country in a few days ) when there commited severcil Excesses, crossed the River, Burned a Barn & a large quantity of grain in stacks the property of Major Kirkpatrick whom they have banished.  Colo Nevill & Genl Gibson are under proscription and to leave Pittsburg immediately.  I am told that I am allowed till the 12th of this month to settle my affairs in Pittsburg and then to disappear. 
On the 14th Instant an other Genl meeting is to take place the result of which God only knows.  Every Possible Pains has been taken & is now pursued to Protect the property and support the Honor of [undecipherable] of the United States. I felt particularly happy [undecipherable].
