---
authors:
- Alexander Hamilton
collection_id: 257
collections:
- Oliver Wolcott Jr. Papers.
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:33+00:00'
day: '27'
description: In preparation to meet the Whiskey Rebellion, the Governor will be calling up a state militia and has agreed that arms and accoutrements will be supplied by the State.There are calls for agents,
  commissioners, and quartermasters to settle allowances and make contracts and other necessary preparations. Requests delivery of horses, tents, camp equipment. Must confer with Governor as to whether
  the best post is at Williamsport or Hagerstown.Careful preparation is necessary; nothing is to be left to hazard. Notes that the insurgents are of an enterprising nature so nothing is to be left to chance.
doc_types:
- Autograph Draft Letter
document_number: '1794082700301'
omeka_image_id: 9826
images:
- 58d1261125268fbca0b5e832f8baf82a64bf24f8.jpg
- e799e669bfca47022c6407be1ec2b7c0d281e9e3.jpg
- 6ecc59068959c5b6907be416b1392cb967cf6b98.jpg
- ff17d6774e9d105cf9b40a112e4b1cbe3d5752e5.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- horses
- tents
- camp equipment
- whiskey
- forage
- fuel
notable_locations:
- Maryland
- Treasury Department
- Hagerstown
- Williamsport
- New York
- Baltimore
notable_persons:
- George Gale
- Alexander Hamilton
- Insurgents
- Governor
- Quartermasters
- Commissioners
omeka_id: 47752
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- George Gale
repositories:
- Connecticut Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Treasury Department
title: Preparations of the Militia Responding to the Whiskey Rebellion
year: '1794'
---



Recorded
Treasury Department Aug 27 1794
Sir
I have received your letter of the 23d instant.  
I expect that the next post will carry to the Governor instructions for assembling and manning the Militia with all practicable expedition.  You may therefore proceed to put in motion the means for supplying them without further delay.  It is understood that you will appoint the requisite Agents and settle the allowances by way of compensation, doing as much by contract as the nature of the service will admit with advantage and as fair as shall consist with dispatch.  
The Governor has informed that arms and accoutrements will be furnished by the State. Artillery Military Stores tents and other camp Equipage will go from hence to the place of general rendezvous which shall be named by the President.  He has thought of Williamsport - which I understand is within six miles of Hagars Town.  But [undecipherable] precise for him he will, no doubt, leave it optional to prefer Hagars Town if there shall appear to the Governor reasons for that preference.  You will therefore
confer with the Governor and act upon this idea.  A conductor of Stores will accompany them from hence, who will be instructed to take the orders of yourself or your Agent at Hagars Town or Williams Port.  An arrangement for their reception and safe keeping ought to be made.  
From what has been said you will perceive that provisions forage fuel & transportation are the objects for which you are to provide.  Whiskey of course falls under the article provisions - which leaves you at liberty to consult the consideration of policy you hint at.  
The Treasurer has been directed to remit you for the service blank drafts for fifteen thousand Dollars which you may [undecipherable] upon the Bank of the United States & the Offices of Discount & Deposit at New York & Baltimore.  These will go by the next post.  
You speak of appointments by the Governor in the staff of Quarter Masters & Commissaries - As the service to be executed will involve a great expenditure, characters of this description will be appointed for the whole army by the Government.  The appointments of the Governor therefore need not go beyond Regimental Quarter Masters.  You may notice this to him -
The affair of the Arms at Frederick is of the greatest importance.  Nothing ought to be left to hazard -- The insurgents are of an entreprising character & would make the attempt if they thought there
was a prospect of success.  But the practicability of execution must depend on the temper of the inhabitants and other local consideration, which I here cannot appreciate.  I intend to write a line by this post to the Governor on the subject.  
With consideration & esteem I am Sir Your Obedt [not signed] 
George Gale Esq
Maryland
