---
authors:
- John Edwards
collection_id: 770
collections:
- Fred Manning Collection of Documents from Various Series in RG217. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:42+00:00'
day: '20'
description: Payment made by John Edwards for Kentucky militia services 1791.  List of individual names.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794102090101'
omeka_image_id: 18026
images:
- fa779bf710b85417078f200239ed3718c03ffb70.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- payment
notable_locations:
- Kentucky
notable_persons:
- John Edwards
- militia
note: Enclosed in Edward to Simmons, 12/11/1797.
omeka_id: 48385
page_start: '6'
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: '[Memorandum of money paid to Kentucky militia for service in 1791]'
year: '1794'
---



Mr. Simmons
Accountant
in the war office
Philadelphia

by post

KY [in circle]

Kentucky [undecipherable] 97

John Edwards 
recd  8 March
Am d
Kentucky 11th December 1797
Mr. Simmons accountant to the War office
Sir
I a few days past reced your favor request
ing me to make a settlement for the mone
ys recedon account of militia services done in
the Country As I informed you once before
General Knox put this money into my hands
to pay of? for those services the Several Individuals
to whom money was due at the same time
gave me Instructions to advertise in the Kentu
cky papers which I did & Strike-through text a number of the
persons came in a few weeks and reced their money
others being more scatterd & some Having Left
the State Came in but slowly but as I kept
an office open in Bourbon they continued to
come &receive their money as usual until I reced
Instructions from your department to discontin 
ue the payment &send forward the papers
for settlement  I took them on to you with the
with the Second clerk that had superintended the business
you did not think yourself authorized to allow the
expence I had given to clerks to do the business
altho General Knox had assured me that the
fullest compensation would be allowed if
I would undertake the business and that any money
remaining in my hands should not be returned
at my risque but delivered to the paymaster
in this country - the first clerk died who paid
the larger sums and anumber [sic] of the vouchers
in his hands could not be found. I have inclosed 
you a copy of payments he sent me to Philadelphia
to convince you that considerable loss will accrue 
to me owing to of the loose careless manner
in which he conducted the business in my 
absence -- I do also remind you that two certificates
have been presented for payment signed by way of
order to me since my return from Philadelphia
These I have taken up and I believe almost all the
remaining ones unpaid would have been discharged
long before this had I not been ordered to discontinue
the payments - the season is rather unpleasant to 
travel to your city to settle abusiness [sic] at my
own expense I never was interested in I am at all times 
ready to act on the balance that may remain
when called on agreable [sic] to the mode
Congress may prescribe and have the Honour
to be with great respect your Humble ...

                   John Edwards  Sen?
Memorandum of payts made to Cos of
Kentucky Militia for service in 1791

Memda
of Money Paid to Kentucky Militia
A memorandum of money paid by John Edwards Esq. to the Kentucky Militia which served in the year 1791.

                                                             Dollars     Cents

Paid to Capt. Bladen Ashby's Company                              283.     23

       Capt. [undecipherable]Thompsons Company                   179.     73
       Capt. Thomas McClanahans Company                          107.     50
       Capt. Byram Routs Company                                  98.     ?0
       Lieut. John Blanes Company                                  4.     70
       Ensign Robert Knoxs Company                                 8.     77 Dollrs  Cents
       Lieut. Squire Grants Company                               2?.     99   602.   12

paid to Barr & Greenup in Philadelphia                                          250.   -- 
[paper missing] cky Owing & Co. for Rations for                                 199.   20
[paper missing] sentioned Militia as per? Recpt.
[paper missing] nderson for Rations furnished

                                                                                 78.  4?

[paper missing] Mentioned Militia as per? Recpt.

                                                                Total--------   1127. 72

October 20th1794       Teste      Jone S. Jones

            A true Copy for John Edwards Esquire
