---
authors:
- William Winchester
collection_id: 774
collections:
- Claims Files Relating to Service in the Revolutionary War, 1775-1851. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:48+00:00'
day: '29'
description: '"Enclosed is Captain Shannon''s return with my report on it."'
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794112990201'
omeka_image_id: 16300
images:
- 66bfc9060e567e6cf358db8f6324f030e9273b81.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- rations
- forage
notable_locations:
- Knoxville
- Crag South
- Summer County
- Territory South of the Ohio
- Davidson County
notable_persons:
- William Rickard
- William Winchester
- Captain John Shannon
- Company of Mounted Infantry
note: Enclosed; Shannon's Return, 11/29/1794.
omeka_id: 48749
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- William Rickard
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Crag South
title: Enclosed Return of Captain Shannon
year: '1794'
---



Craigs South 
29 Novemr 1794
Wm Winchester
Letter of Receipt 
Respecting 
Captain Shannons 
Men having drawn 
pay for their Eating 

Capt. William Rickard 
Knoxville
Attention B [Searcy?] Esq
Crag South 29th Nov. 1794
Sir 
Inclosed is Cap Shannons Return with my Report on It. 
I am with respect & Esteem Sir Your Huml Servt 
Winchester 
Cap. Will. Rickard
Sumner County 29th Novemr 1794
Lieut Cummings who commanded the within men, a detachment of Capt Shannons Company gave a Return for their Rations & forage for their time of Service which they have  [actually?] drew in part and Received pay for the Balance.  
Winchester
Let. Capt John Shannon's Co. 
Mounted Infty, 1793
Territory South of the Ohio
I John Shannon of Davidson County Captain of a Company of Mounted Infantry do Certify that the whole of the Officers & Soldiers of the Company who served under from the seventh day of September 1793 to the ninth day of October following both days included found their own Rations & forage during the time of their Service Except 
No. 1 John Cummings Lieut                    
2 William Montgomery Sergt 
3 John Tenning [Sergt]
4 John Harpole Trum
5  Pearson Bell  Priv[ate]
6. Martin Harpole do [Private]
7 Thos. Patton  --
8  Wm Frazier --
9 Henry Potts --
10 James Williams --
11 Eben Wilson --
12 Silus McBee -- 
13 Jacob Houdashall -- 
14  Wm Tenning -- 
15 Barnard Hogan --
16 Wm Green -- 
17 Wm Reed -- 
18 Henry Sadler --
19 Joseph Neeley -- 
20 Terry Poe -- 
21 Wm Armstrong --
22 Adam Harpole -- 
23 Isaac Peirce
24 Arthur Hawkins -- 
25 Josiah Hunter 
26 Adam Beard
27 Isaac Towell 
28 [illegible] Bernay 
29 Robert Berkly 
30 Joseph McAdams
Given under my hand at Nashville this 9th day of Octr 1793
Signed John Shannon Capt
True Copy
