---
authors:
- Henry Lee
collection_id: 550
collections:
- Papers of James W. Singleton.
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:48+00:00'
day: '29'
description: Governor Henry Lee of Virginia declares that the residents of the Counties of Washington, Allegheny, Westmoreland, and Fayette in the State of Pennsylvania, and Ohio County in the State of
  Virginia, are pardoned for treasonous offenses committed during the recent Whiskey Rebellion. Included in the Proclamation is a list of men whose atrocities make it necessary to subject them to the normal
  judicial procedures and who are therefore excepted from this pardon.
doc_types:
- Printed or published document
document_number: '1794112990001'
omeka_image_id: 9219
images:
- 6e338282b615a82993dcc5da6b0452de51c92325.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- Whiskey Rebellion
notable_locations:
- Elizabethtown
- Virginia
- Pennsylvania
notable_persons:
- Henry Lee
- Benjamin Parkinson
- Arthur Gardner
- John Holcroft
- Daniel Hamilton
- Thomas Lapsley
- William Miller
- G.K. Taylor
- aid-de-camp
- Edward Cook
- Edward Wright
- Richard Holcroft
- David Bradford
- John Mitchell
- Alexander Fulton
- Thomas Spiers
- William Bradford
- George Parker
- William Hanna
- Edward Magner
- Thomas Hughes
- David Lock
- Ebenezer Gallagher
- Peter Lyle
- John Shields
- William Hay
- William McElhenny
- Thomas Patton
- Patrick Jack
- Stephenson Jack
- Andrew Hilands
- William Sutherland
- Robert Stephenson
- William McKinley
- John Moore
- John McCormick
- militia
omeka_id: 48746
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Unknown Recipient
repositories:
- Old Dominion University Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Elizabeth Town
title: Pardon of Those Guilty of Treasonous Offenses
year: '1794'
---



By HENRY LEE, Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, Major General therein, and Commander in Chief of the Militia Army in the Service of the United States.  
A PROCLAMATION.
By virtue of the powers and authority in me vested, by the President of the United States, and in obedience to his benign intentions, therewith communicated, I do, by this my Proclamation, declare and make known to all concerned, that a full, free, and entire pardon, (excepting and providing as hereafter mentioned)is hereby granted to all persons resident with the counties of Washington, Allegheny, Westmoreland, and Fayette, in the State of Pennsylania, and in the county of Ohio, in the State of Virginia, guilty of Treason, or Misprison of Treason against the United States, or otherwise directly or indirectly engaged in the wicked and unhappy tumults and disturbances lately existing in those counties; excepting nevertheless from the benefit and effect of this pardon all persons charged with the commission of offences against the United States, and now actually in custody, or held by recognizance to appear and answer for such offences at any judicial court or courts; excepting also all persons avoiding fair trial by abandonment of their homes; and excepting moreover the following persons, the attrocity of whose conduct renders it proper to mark them by name for the purpose of subjecting them, with all possible certainty, to the regular course of judicial proceedings, and whom all officers, civil and military, are required to endeavor to apprehend, or cause to be apprehended and brought to justice, to wit. BENJAMIN PARKINSON, ARTHUR GARDNER, JOHN HOLCROFT, DANIEL HAMILTON, THOMAS LAPSLEY, WILLIAM MILLER, EDWARD COOK, EDWARD WRIGHT, RICHARD HOLCROFT, DAVID BRADFORD, JOHN MITCHELL, ALEXANDER FULTON, THOMAS SPIERS, WILLIAM BRADFORD, GEORGE PARKER, WILLIAM HANNA, EDWARD MAGNER, Junior, THOMAS HUGHES, DAVID LOCK, EBENEZER GALLAGHER, PETER LYLE, JOHN SHIELDS, WILLIAM HAY, WILLIAM M'ELHENNY, THOMAS PATTON, PATRICK JACK, STEPHENSON JACK, and ANDREW HILANDS, of the State of Pennsylvania, and WILLIAM SUTHERLAND, ROBERT STEPHENSON, WILLIAM M'KINLEY, JOHN MOORE, and JOHN M'CORMICK, of Ohio county, in the State of Virginia.
Provided, That no person who shall hereafter wilfully obstruct, or attempt of obstruct the execution of any of the laws of the United States, or be in any wise aiding or abetting therein, shall be entitled to any benefit or advantage of the pardon herein before granted: And provided also.  That nothing herein contained, shall extend, or be construed to extend to the remission or mitigation of any forfeiture of any penalty incurred by reason of infractions of, or obstructions to, the laws of the United States for collecting a revenue upon distilled Spirits and Stills.  
GIVEN under my hand, at Head-Quarters, in Elizabeth Town, this twenty ninth day of November, 1794. 
HENRY LEE. 
By order of the Commander in Chief.
G. K. TAYLOR, Aid de Camp.
