---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:48+00:00'
day: '03'
description: Discusses Whiskey Rebellion; discusses offer of head of Commissary but declines; recommends another. Refers to domestic responsibilities as well as responsibilities at his post.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794120340001'
omeka_image_id: 21804
images:
- e9e3e1312efa8674d2a145145d2563e7d6019ba0.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- domestic concerns
- numerous family
- public charges
- compensation
- supply of provisions
- return of stores
- military stores
- hospital
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
- Maryland
notable_persons:
- Henry Knox
- Isaac Craig
- Governor Lee
- Henry Lee
- General Morgan
- Commissary
- Mrs. Craig
- militia army
- Major Abraham Kirkpatrick
- Colonel Hamilton
- quartermaster
- Maryland Militia
- Conductors of Military Stores
- purveyor of the hospital
- Major General Lee
- insurgents
omeka_id: 48782
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Decline of Whiskey Rebellion; Reports Duties
year: '1794'
---



Pittsburg 3d December 1794
Sir
Governor Lee having requested me to go with him to view and assist in laying out the ground on which the Troops under the command of Genl Morgan are to Winter, I was thereby unavoidably absent on the arrival & departure of last Post, consequently had not then the honor of acknowledging the receipt of your favor of the 22 Ultimo with its enclosures.
Your very kind and generous offer of principal commissary with a liberal Compensation deserves my most sincere most grateful acknowledgements , and particularly as it affords to me a pleasing testimony of your approbation of my conduct in the execution of the several duties assigned me at this Post and its dependencies.  But necessary attention to domestic concerns, having a numerous family and Mrs. Craig being in a situation in which I cannot without the greatest reluctance think of having her, these considerations added to the public charges with which I am entrusted, which has been greatly increased by the arrival of the Militia Army, and the present establishment under General Morgan, induces me to decline accepting your generous offer, at the same time I beg leave to suggest that my present Compensation is not adequate to the support of my family and therefore of attending to the supplies of provisions at this post and its dependencies be not incompatible with my present duties.  I shall be glad to accept of it, and I must beg leave to mention Major Abraham Kirkpatrick to whom I have communicated your letter as one well qualified to execute the duties of that office.  I have such full confidence in his abilities and integrity that I have no doubt of his faithfully & satisfactorily performing any duty he may undertake.  Colo Hamilton I presume has some knowledge of him as he acted as Quarter Master to the Maryland Militia on their march to & in this Country.  
I have herewith enclosed a return of Stores received of the several Quarter Masters, Conductors of Military Stores, and
purveyors of the hospital of the Militia Army under command of his Excellency Major Genl Lee, a part of which have since been issued for the use of the Troops under command of Genl Morgan.  
A degree of Tranquility is at last restored to this Country altho' a number of the most violent insurgents are still in their hiding places, it is yet doubtful whether they will rush forth as a desperate band or submit to the laws.  
I am Sir, with great respect your obt Hble Servant 
Isaac Craig
Honble Majr Genl Knox Secretary of War
