---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:22:51+00:00'
day: '19'
description: Packet of letters and money to QMG O'Hara forwarded via Lieut. Bissel. General return of stores for militia army sent to Secretary of War, Craig requested Howell make a copy for his use as
  Craig was too busy to make a copy.  Noted various deliveries made by John Black a.k.a. Schwartz, requested money to pay for goods.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1794121989001'
omeka_image_id: 21807
images:
- 4434ae69cd1b3e935e310be9794b8370f259c18f.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- copy
- packet
- return
- stores
- invoice
- jackets
- shoes
- woolen overalls
- ink powder
- quills
- general return of stores
- alias
- hogsheads
- clothing
- load
- receipt
- sum of money
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
- War Department
- Quartermaster's Department
- Bedford
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Isaac Craig
- Samuel Fisher
- James O'Hara
- Quartermaster General
- Lieutenant Bissel
- Caleb Swan
- Secretary of War
- Henry Knox
- militia
- Commander-in-chief
- John Black
- John Swartz
- John Schwartz
- Peter Little
- Peter Tittle
- Colonel Francis Mentges
omeka_id: 48928
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Forwarded Money, Delivery of Supplies
year: '1794'
---



Pittsburg  19th Decr 1794
Sir
Your letter of the 4 Instant enclosing one thousand Dollars I have received by the hands of Samuel Fisher on the 18th together with two packets addressed to James Ohara Quarter [undecipherable] General which I sent forward on the 17 in charge of Lieut. Bissell who had also charge of two packets containing a large sum of Money addressed to Caleb Swan.

A General return of stores received of the Militia Army has been transmitted to the Secretary at war to that return I must beg leave to refer you, & have to request you to take the trouble of having it copied for your own use, as I am too much hurried at present to have it done here. and you will please to observe that all the articles delivered by this several Qr Masters [undecipherable] of that array was in consequence of
a general often issued by the Commander in chief to whom I have also made a return similar to that transmitted to the Secretary of War. John Black, alias John Swartz and Peter Little has delivered four [Hhds?] accompanied with an Invoice dated 27 October addressed to Colo Francis Mendez with the army at Bedford, Vig; Swartz on the 30 Mar delivered [Hhd?] N<sup>o</sup> Containing one hundred & five round Jackets, & one hundred & five pair woolen overalls, & N<sup>o</sup>6 Containing two hundred & twenty Eight pairs Shoes & Peter Little has this day delivered Hhd No<sup>o</sup>4 Containing three hundred & six pairs Shoes. All in tolderable good order. Swartz appears to be the person that received the [Hohds?] at your Store and the lead being too heavy he was obliged to leave live [Hohds?] on the way which Little has according to agreement with Swartz delivered at the same time produce. Swartz order on me for fifteen pounds which I have pack Little being in distress. & to Swartz on the delivery of Hhds N<sup>o</sup> I advanced ten dollars to enable him to return & bring the others with a promise to make him a further advance on their delivery, therefore I have paid in the whole fifty Dollars on account of Swartz, that sum I have to request you to see that it is accounted for by Swartz in settlement for his serves & place to my credit.

The order in favor of Little with his receipt thereon is enclosed. I have been under a necessity of borrowing a considerable Sum of money for the purpose of the Qr Masters Department which I am immediately to refund, I have therefore to beg in the most pressing man-ner that the four thousand Dollars may be transmitted as early as possible. The Article Ink powder & quills are entirely expended be pleased to send a supply as soon as possible a part of superior quality.

I am yout Hble Serv<sup>t</sup>
Isaac Craig

Sam Hodgdon Esq.
