---
authors:
- Timothy Pickering
collection_id: 873
collections:
- James Wilkinson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:23:00+00:00'
day: '14'
description: Indian goods for peace treaty on hand in stores.   Mentioned condition army uniforms and specific types of materials and supplies delivered to be forwarded to Major Craig.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1795031400101'
omeka_image_id: 9378
images:
- 5f159931d982b002ce93706ff9ee4a58729f837b.jpg
- 49c50ffe775c827f847637ce0c79b76c2b4b87fc.jpg
- 7aaa74f4a5a2eca4378b5167ee41b186b132ea32.jpg
- 8c7a4c0609bb04fa26ee262e596e55e76e62591f.jpg
- afc7bbac9a1a4c8c3ad5f3723e508e2bea6b2ab7.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- return of Indian goods
- Indian goods
- treaty
- calico shirts
- callico shirts
- trunk
- linen shirts
- linnen histers
- blue green brown and white half thicks
- diaper rugs
- blue stroud
- scarlet stroud
- stroud blanket
- black wampum
- vermillion
- woolens
- moth eaten
- clothing of the army
- receipt
notable_locations:
- War Office
- Greeneville
- Greenville
- Indian Department
- Pittsburgh
notable_persons:
- James O'Hara
- Timothy Pickering
- Indians
- Colonel Meigs
- Indian Department
- Major Isaac Craig
- Return J Meigs
omeka_id: 49543
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- James O'Hara
repositories:
- Chicago Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Status of Supplies
year: '1795'
---



[undecipherable] War Office
Colo. James O'Hara
14th March 1795
P
War Office March 14th 1795
Sir:  
On looking over the Returns of Indian Goods on Hand, at Greenville, I am inclined to think that a small additional supply will suffice for the occasional demands of the Indians untill the treaty should be held for making peace.  The following articles are all that I would have forwarded, untill the terms of purchase shall be settled here between you & the Treasury Department.  About four hundred Callico Shirts No. 8, the smallest trunk of linnen shirts containing 189 - Case No. 13 containing blue green brown & white half thicks, & 2 Diaper rugs, The Bale No. 15 containing pieces of blue Stroud, one piece of scarlet do. of 17 yards & one of blue containing 15 yards. Seventeen hundred of Black wampum & the 5 1/2 lbs Vermillion. 
The whole should be examined and particularly the woollens, before they are forwarded. There is much dander that the woollens are motheaten as they have lain long on hand - Nothing should be sent that is not in good order.  I suppose there will be no objection to paying you for the articles above mentioned at the prime Cost & charges. 
Colo: Meigs will be employed to take charge of the Goods in the Indian department & perhaps of the Clothing of the Army.  I expect, if not now, that he will shortly be at Pittsburg should he not arrive in time to
to receive your Goods, & you deem it necessary to forward them without further delay, it may be done.  In this case Major Craig may examine & receipt for them. 
I am Sir
Your Humble Servant: 
Timothy Pickering
Col. James O'Hara
Q. M. G. 
A true Copy R. J. Meigs

Copy    77
War Office March 14th 1795 
Sir,
On looking over the Return of Indian Goods on hand at Greeneville, I am Inclined to think that a small additional supply will suffice for the occasional demands of the Indians, Untill the Treaty should be held for Making peace, the following articles are all that I would have forwarded Untill the purchase or Terms of purchase shall be settled here between you and the Treasury Department.  
about Four hundred Callico Shirts, No 8 the smallest Trunk of Linen, Containing 189, Case No. 13 Containing Blue, Green, Brown, and white thicks, and two Diaper Rugs. 
The Bale No. 15 Containing 12 Pieces of Stroud Blue, one piece of Scarlet Ditto of Seventeen yards, and one of Blue Qt fifteen yards, Seventeen hundred of Black Wampum, and the 5 1/2 pounds of Vermillion.  
The Whole should be Examined, and Particular the Woolens, before they are forwarded.  There is much danger that Woolens are Moth eaten, as they have lain so long on hand nothing should be sent, that is not in good Order. 
I suppose there will be no Objection for paying you the articles above mentioned, at the prime Cost and Charges, Collonel Meigs will be employed to take Charge of the Goods in the Indian Department, and perhaps of the Clothing of the Army.  I Expect if not now, that he will be shortly at Pittsburgh.  Should he not arrive in time to Receive your Goods, and you deem it necessary to forward them without further delay it may be done.  In this Case Major Craig may Examine and Receipt for them. 
I am Sir 
Your Humle Servt
Timothy Pickering 
Coll James O'Hara
