---
authors:
- John Foster Williams
collection_id: 470
collections:
- Anthony Wayne Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:23:09+00:00'
day: '07'
description: Williams believed war would continue due to the encouragement of the Creek Indians by the British to make war against United States.  Warriors take war path by Wayandol and Delaware towns with
  hopes they will strike and give the warriors a right to commence hostilities.  Danger to women and children discussed.  Request for hasty assistance.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1795050790001'
omeka_image_id: 10190
images:
- fee2559c3c3a817614f497b6a846215dceff3667.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- protection
- lies
- war
- deceit
- wampum
- treaty
- corn
notable_locations:
- Sandusky
- North West
- Ohio River
- Miami River
- Detroit
- Big Rock
notable_persons:
- Anthony Wayne
- John Williams
- Creek Indians
- British
- Enos Khun
- Wayandols
- Shawanoes
- Shawnee
- Grand Council
- Delawares
- french
- Francois Duchuquet
- James Whitaker
- traders
- agent
- sachens
omeka_id: 50046
page_start: '38'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- Chicago Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Sandusky
title: Deceit of Creek Indians Discussed
year: '1795'
---



Sandusky 7th May 1795
Sir
Your Excellency's letters of the 6th March and 13th April last came safe to hand _ it renders me the satisfaction of hearing from you once more.  I mentioned in my last letter to you that every thing went on well, but am sorry to say not it is to the reverse.  
There is a new Machine sprung up to frustrate my good Design, I think there will be a War Continued, I will give you the foundation of my so thinking, not long ago a Messenger came from the Creek Nations and says to their Brethren Indians Northwest of the Ohio, make no peace with the United States, for they only wish to Deceive you as they have done with us. 
These and other encouragements given daily to them give life and vigour to the Warriors again Part of the Shawanoes are so much influenced by the British, that they have declared they would not make peace with you; there is now a treaty of a Mixed Clan makeing ready to go off to War in a few days, from the Miamie River; this I have from good authority; as I sent Enos Khun five days ago to the aforesaid place with speeches which I issued out to the Shawanoes to be strong and hold fast to the good works we are upon, And upon his arrival, seen the Warriors Danceing the War Dance, he was told those men would go off soon to strike the Americans, they are to pass by this place in going and coming, as they wish to make their war path by our Towns, it intimates to me as if they wish us to strike at them in Order to have the Plea of Commenceing Hostillaties.  
This is not the only proof which convinces me that their Design is not good, Why should all the Chiefs from the Miamie River be called to a Council at the Big Rocks; And we being exemplery" the Indian Department is now to use their Utmost Influence at their meeting and whatever they may say is to be a law, for the Indians there.  
I am well assured also by a friend from Detroit that the Wayandots at the Big Rock is Determined not to pay any attention to us; and the Indian Department will Cooperate with them in every measure and will spare no sum of money to accomplish their Ill Designs against us - Me in particular.  You will see by these proceedings before mentioned, I am obliged to go under strict regulations to Guard against my Enemies as a very good General ought to do.  I look upon myself Bound in duty to the United States of America to prevent all harm intended them.  I hope their attention to me and my people will not be neglected.  Allow me, Sir, to state the matter clearly to you, and the Danger our Women & Children will be to when ever we leave them,  as they are obliged to remain at home to plant Corn.  The period is now at no great distance when you will [undecipherable] us I hope, at the approved place for holding the Grand Council.  The ill disposed Indians will take this advantage perhaps
Perhaps to destroy our Women & Children.  I know the Hearts of the Savage he is desperate and barbarous particularly when supported which is the case now [illegible].  I now call upon you, Sir, in the name of the Wyandots & Delawares for protection. Remember my first speech to you when I was at Greeneville - If provisions should be a difficulty, I can supply. there is two villains here named Francois Duchuquet a french man & James Whittaker boath traders of this place, who is working underhandedly to Corrupt the mindes of my people, it is said that one of these men (the french) has given a belt of Wampum to the Cayagos, which is the party I have before mentioned of at the Miamie River.  
But be you assured so soon as I can Discover this bad Designing Man, I will cause his Scalp to be hung to one of our bells.  I will pledge me life, for the good of my Country, and will forever be a friend to the United States.  I have now sent you one Delaware & one Wyandot, boath Chiefs to conduct your Troops here make all the haste you can, no time to be lost now as this plan now exists in compleating all our affairs with less expences & trouble. I am Sir with respect to your Excellency &c 
Sincere Friendship John F Williams Agent & Commissioner For the Lachems Chiefs & Warriors 

Major General Wayne Greenville Head Quarters
