---
authors:
- David Henley
collection_id: 770
collections:
- Fred Manning Collection of Documents from Various Series in RG217. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:23:14+00:00'
day: '03'
description: Accounts for various small price items puchased for the Choctaw Indians.
doc_types:
- Document Signed
document_number: '1795060390201'
omeka_image_id: 18862
images:
- 980dee601fdbaba99e3d3054bceb60d88d4092f2.jpg
- d9d70ad49f08512b0889cf131a56e36dc7c1524f.jpg
- eefdb6f200d0487e7ad7f2ae01bd42ea6910147d.jpg
- 6c9e8cda29b94e4137fb10373d08ef89a2797243.jpg
- 14c86f2e1d687288069d2a25be276eb28ac31e4d.jpg
- 88df9961be211b1d5845077463cc1256bffdd35a.jpg
- f608f441e4083fd85089b67b4afaacc3a06d0106.jpg
- 5cfac8a3aac96d697e95002f2f565bcd0dcd5dcc.jpg
- 0b7e2838367889f49821981e3266eeb24052f02e.jpg
- 51002a6f0976df09d1e6bf194ac447b6f298c7d3.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- clothing
- buttons
- tobacco
notable_locations:
- Knoxville
- Tennessee
notable_persons:
- David Henley
- Choctaws
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- contractor
- John Chisholm
note: Enclosed in Henley to Howell, 06/04/1795.
omeka_id: 50388
page_start: '10'
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Knoxville
title: Abstract of supplies to the Choctaw Indians by David Henley.
year: '1795'
---



David Henley
Received 2d July 
Ansd 22d "
Joseph Howell esquire
Accountant of the 
War Department 
p Capt. Chisholm} Philadelphia
Knoxville th 4 June 1795
Sir,
I have forwarded by Capt Chisholm my abstracts and accounts stated of the payments to the troops of this Territory - both the Regulars and Militia, and also for the contingent expences of Government and the Indian Department with the vouchers for the same, which I hope you will find right and agreeable to the form prescribed.  The warrants for the payments shall take some other opportunity to forward.  
I have in some instances regulated some Errors that was in the Muster Rolls, which makes their amounts more than was at first estimated, in other other instances they have been short of the estimate layed before you.  This has been owing to the defect of the Officers and muster master; the reports upon the pay rolls will point them out.  
Upon the
Upon the whole the amount will be about the same intended for to discharge them.  
I shall want some stationary and articles as per Memorandum at foot, and wish they may be sent on to me the first conveyance - and am Respectfully Sir Your Hum Servt. David Henley
1 set Money Scales for Mr. Overturn the Supervisor, which may be placed to my account
For the Office 
10 Reams of writing Paper
300 Quills
Sand
1 doz pepers of Ind Powder, black and red-
1 Ream Muster Rolls for Detachments
1 Ream ditto for Companies
1 Ream Pay Rolls of each
Inspection Returns for the Regulars - 
Joseph Howell esquire - 
PS - I have just sent an account of the Expences the Chickasaws and Choctaws have been
at while here for the Secretary of War -
Account of 
Expenditures for
the Chickasaws and
Choctaw Indians
3 June 1795
Dr The United States
To David Henley A Dpmt War 
For Sundry Articles supplyed the Chickasaws and Choctaw Indians 
Chickasaw
Delivered them by Abstract thereof Sundries to amount 77.25
Paid John Chissum bill for board from the 11 May to the 3 June for 4 of that nation @ 50 Cts p day } 46.
James Dobson repairing a Saddle 1.
Nancy Aldridge for washing 1.     [subtotal} 125.25
Choctaws
Delivered them bye Abstract thereof Sundries to Amount 226.79
Paid John Chissum bill for board from th 28 May to 3 June for 5 of that nation @ 50 Cts p day} 15.
Robert Nulley for Shoing 6 Choctaw Horses and making a Gun Wiper} 6.33
Nancy Aldridge for washing 1.  [subtotal] 249.4
Advanced John Chissum Per the Governors Warrant to pay his and the Indians Expences to Philadelphia 700.
[Total] 1074.29
Knoxville 4 June 1795
David Henley 
A Dpmt War
Abstract of Supplies to the Chickasaw Indians
Abstract of Payments made
for Articles & Supplies purchased by Contract or procured for the Use of Chi*
[5 column table] [Headers:  Date of Payment | To whom Made | How the articles were procured | blank | Shirts]
1795 June 3d | King & Crozier | By Contract | blank | blank
"                      | Joseph Greer  | By Purchase | blank | blank
"                      | David Henley   | Ditto             | blank | blank
"                      |          "              | Public Magazine | blank | 4

                                                                                              4


Knoxville June 3 1795
We do Certify That the said David Henley deliver the above articles, in our presence. 
Wm Rickard
Wm Bunt
Abstract of Payments made by David Henley Agent to the War Department 
[missing text] or procured for the Use of Chickasaw Indians - the 3d June 1795
[Table Header Columns:  Shirts. Hats. Silk. Romals. Saddles. Saddle Bags. Surcingles. pr Shoes. pr Buckles.  Bushls Corn. Saddlebag Locks. [blank]. No. of Vouchers. [Dollars]]
[1st line: 2 Hats, 4 Romels, 3 Saddles, 1 Saddle bag, 2 Surcingles, 4 pr shoes, 4 pr Buckles, 1 Saddlebag Lock.  No. of Voucers 1. 59.75]
[2nd line: 3 silks, No of Vouchers 2. 4.50]
[3rd line: 15 Bushls Corn, No of Vouchers 3, 5.00]
[4th line: 4 Shirts, Estimate at, No of Vouchers 4, 8.00]
[Totals] Shirts 4. Hats 2. Silk 3. Romels 4. Saddles 3. Saddle Bags 1. Surcingles 2. pr Shoes 4. pr Buckles 4. Bushls Corn 15. Saddlebag Locks 1.  77.25

Knoxville June 3, 1795

 Henley Deliver

 Wm Rickard

Wm Bunt
Abstract of Supplies to the Choctaw Indians
Abstract of Payments made 
Department, for articles and Supplies purchased by Contract, or procured
[Table Column Headers:  Date of Payment. To whom made. How the Articles were Procured. [blank]. Coats. Shirts. Blankets. Yds. of Woollen Cloth. Binding's Bolts. Silk Hankerchiefs. [missing text] 
1795 June 1st. James King. By purchase. 
" " Benjamin White. ditto. 
" " Thomas Guest. ditto. 
" " King & Crozier. By Contract.  6 blankets. 6 Yds. of Woollen Cloth. 1 /2 Binding's Bolts. 6 Silk Hankerchiefs.
Delivered.  By Geo. Farragut. From the Public Magazine. 5 Coats. 5 Shirts. 
David Henley. Purchased. 
Knoxville 3 June *
We do Certify that we saw David Henley deliver 
the above articles in our presence.  
Wm. Rickard 
John Chisholm
Abstract of Payments made by David Henley Agent to the War [missing text] purchased by Contract, or procured for the use of the Choctaw Indians the 3d June 1795
[Table Column Headers:  Coats. Shirts. Blankets. yds of Woollen Cloth. Binding's Bolts. Silk Hankerchiefs. Pr. Shoes. Sleeve Buttons. Pr. Buckles. Tinsel Hatbands. Hats. Combs. Saddle Bags. Tobacco. Thread. doz: Needles. Cases Razors. Bushls Corn. Horses. No of Vouchers. Dlls.  Cts.]
[1st line] 1 Horses 25
[2nd Line] 1 Horses 50
[3rd Line] 1 Horses 42.50
[4th Line] 6 Blankets.6  yds of Woollen Cloth. 1 1/2 Binding's Bolts. 6 Silk Hankerchiefs. 6 Pr. Shoes. 10 Sleeve Buttons. 6 Pr. Buckles. 0 
10 Tinsel Hatbands. 2 Hats. 4 Combs. 1 Saddle Bags. 3 Tobacco. 2 Thread. 1 doz: Needles. 1 Cases Razors. 72.88
[5th Line] 5 Coats. 5 Shirts. 30.00
[6th Line] 19 Bushls Corn 6.88
[Total]228.71
Knoxville 3 June 1795
Henley deliver 
Wm Rickard 
John Chisholm
