---
author_note: Kings, Headmen and Warriors of the Choctaw Nation.
authors:
- Choctaws
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:23:16+00:00'
day: '10'
description: Friendship between nations of Indians after peace talk and smoking of tobacco.  Noted conspiracy of Americans selling land and Indian people.  Proposed alliance against Americans.  Seeks peace
  with Cherokees, requests Chickasaws talk with Cherokees to sway them towards peace with Choctaws.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1795061090101'
omeka_image_id: 16881
images:
- 43b75e31cae0c4a00cfecb22962dd08e37d03100.jpg
- 5f9b8c193422d38ab7504e6637d55021fb14e169.jpg
- 32a461a26898f1e2eb1e25b90b7e4e3890143db0.jpg
- 25f75bd5577671b1c2614a2d4db16accf38ed160.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- beads
- tobacco
- hatchets
- hunting
- planting
- white beads
- talks
- ammunition
- guns
notable_locations:
- Tuskabatchee
- Oaksuskey
- lower towns
- Orleans
- Mobile
- Tala
- Big Mucklashkee
- Custisa
- Chanchita
- Fapach Ohito
- Langlasha
- Oskelagane
- Senckaha
- Taksi Nokabe
- land
notable_persons:
- Creeks
- Choctaws
- kings
- headmen
- warriors
- Mad Dog
- White Lieutenant
- Nine Hadgo
- Abecuchies
- Governor of Orleans
- Chickasaw
- Taboca
- Americans
- Spaniards
- red people
- Cherokee
- Franchimartabe
- Taboia
- Taboca
- Turkay Mico
- Tuskay Mico
- Panska Apoy
- Red Shoes
- Fanny Noma
- Tarkahoga Mingo
- Franchimartabe
- Mingo Fapassa
- Nakene Noma
- Ghekoba Noma
- Chekoba Noma
- chiefs
- Pedro Oliow
- Pedro Oliocer
- Indians
- Indian Nation
- red men
omeka_id: 50451
page_start: '1'
recipient_note: Creek Nation.
recipients:
- Creek Chiefs
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Orleans
title: '[Copy] Talk from the Choctaw Nation to the Creek Nation'
year: '1795'
---



/copy/
The Chactaw
to
The Creek Nation
June 10th 1795
No 5
June 10
+
224
The following Kings, Headmen & warriors of the Chactaw Nation, assembled, send this Talk to their elder brother, the Mad Dog of the Tuckabatches, the White Lieutenant of the Oakfuskeys, Nine Hadgo [i.e., Hadjo] of the Abecuckies and Apoyl of the Hickory Ground, and to all their elder brothers the Creeks in general, both upper and lower Towns. 
[Blotted: Friends] and Brothers. 
We have received your Talk — which the Governor of orleans forwarded to us together with the beads and tobacco which we have smoaked, and now having met with some head men of your Nation we take this opportunity to tell you so. — To tell you that we have brightened up the Chain of friendship — that we hold you fast by the hand and remember the times of old when we buried the Hatchet which we hope never will be dug up again. 
Brothers! It makes our hearts very sorrowful to see that you and our elder brothers the Chickasaws have got embroiled in war, whilst you would be [line-ending stroke] much better employed in hunting and planting for your families— The same father made us all red people and desired us to live in peace, and instead of following his advice, we take bad Council and kill [blot]
one another. 
Brothers, listen to our Talks, and do not make us ashamed by throwing them away, — We made peace between you and the Chickasaws once before, and we wish to do it now — We send you white beads by this opportunity, and we have named one of our beloved men Taboca to carry in a Talk to the Chickasaws to advise them to kill no more red men, and to be at peace. We know they are sorry for [blot:what] they did, and will take our Talks, and we hope you will take them also. Therefore make peace and spill no more blood. _ Give us your answer and send it to our father the Commandan[t] of Mobile as soon as possible. 
Brothers, Our father in orleans has told us that [the] Americans have sold us and our lands. Now they may do so, but if we continue united they can never take them from us, but if we kill one another, who wil[l] be left to defend them? When you have thought o[f] these things, remember the good advice our father[s] the Spaniards give us every day— They speak always for the good of the red people, because we ar[e] their children; and they have promised us ammunition and guns to defend ourselves if we are [line-ending stroke] attacked. 
We have nothing more to say, but only to
224
beg you again to take our advice, and send peace Talks to this place for the Chickasaws, and receive the white beads in token of everlasting peace between you and us — and smoake the tobacco we have sent you, and send this Talk to Your brothers the Cherokees that they may make peace also. 
Mobille June 10th 1795
Franchimartabe xTaboca -  -  -  xTuskay Mico -  - X of Tala.Panska Apoy - - - X Big MucklaskieRed Shoes - -  X CustisaFanny homa     X ChanchitaTarkahoga Mingo X Fapack OkitsFranchimartabe X LanglaskaMingo Fapassa X OskalaganeNakene homa X SenekahaChekoba homa X Taksi hokabe.
At the great meeting held in presence of
/Copy/  Pedro Oliveer [i.e., Olivier][pen flourish]
