---
authors:
- William Skinner
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:23:24+00:00'
day: '28'
description: Skinner received a letter informing him that his wife was very sick so he had to leave his business with a friend so he could rush to her side.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1795072880001'
omeka_image_id: 12536
images:
- 1708661bf694a9c4ef53c379d4f465cd64b5cc6e.jpg
- a7b6e9115d33483c9b3b0a0caa625961863176e2.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- tea
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- West Liberty
- Pittsburgh
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- William Skinner
- Mr. Knox
note: Largely illegible.
omeka_id: 50945
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '2'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: West Liberty
title: Attending to Mrs. Skinner's Illness, Etc.
year: '1795'
---



[Editors Note: Letter has been trifolded.  The middle section reads:]
William Skinner
20th July 1795
[Undecipherable] 7th Aug
[Editors Note: 181 in a circle.  Below it is a smaller, more modern typeset of:]
Received
from 
State Dep't
Nov. 24 1894
RPO 401810
[Editors Note: Right section of the trifold reads:]
I am Sir with return your 
Humble sev't___

Wm Skinner
[Editors Note: Left setion of the trifold reads:]
Port [Undecipherable]20
Samuel Hodgdon Esqr
No 71 North Watter Street
Philadelphia
[Editors note: side of page is ripped, as though a strip was torn off.  Some words are cut in the middle.]     
West Liberty 28th July 1795
Sir,

I expect before this comes to hand youl think stranger of my conduct in leaving the city without seeing you again. 
on the Next Day After I had the [Undecipherable] of seeing you. I cauld at your haun with Mr.. Esting respecting the Tea but you wan [Undecipherable] on the same Evening I harda Letter from Wst Liberty Informing me that Mrs.. Skinner was very sick - on the rupt of that letter I left my [Undecipherable] with a friend & Left the city by Daylight Next Morning I  cauld on Mr.. Esting Again [Undecipherable] the Evning After I [Undecipherable] to start the journey to cawl on you Befor [Undecipherable] Left the City but he said provided that he should not see you>> that I should Nut  him in Pissburgh on the 15th of August & he wauto take Mr.. Knoxes Recpt & give his to pay you from the Tea on his Return to Phil in the spring provided that he got the Tea you may L send that I will [Undecipherable] to the [Undecipherable] on Mr. Estings [Undecipherable] at Pittsburgh.>>
on the Evinign befor I started I wrote a few Lines to Live it Mr. McThomas for you & Expected that I had Left them until this Morning in [Undecipherable] my close [Undecipherable] the Lines n my [Undecipherable] park it.___
