---
authors:
- Stephen Rochefontaine
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:23:51+00:00'
day: '10'
description: In order to prevent the improper application for stores, Rochefontaine recommends that commanding officers of detachments be required to submit estimates of their needs for clothing for five
  months hence. In January applications should be made for the summer months and in June or July another application made for their winter supplies.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1797011090002'
omeka_image_id: 13974
images:
- b43b6357e1ed82d6dbe6356e41e0de0a12748143.jpg
month: '01'
notable_locations:
- West Point
notable_persons:
- Stephen Rochefontaine
- Samuel Hodgdon, Superintendent of Military Stores
note: "Document is not complete. \r\nEnclosure: Robeson to Rochefontaine, 01/04/1797.\r\nEnclosure: Rochefontaine to Hodgdon, 01/31/1797."
omeka_id: 52484
page_start: '4'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: West Point
title: Preventing Improper Applications
year: '1797'
---



Colonel Rochfontaine
31st January 
1797
Recd 7th Feby

Samuel Hodgdon Esquire
Superintendent of Military Stores
Philadelphia
Westpoint Jany 31st 1797
Sir,
I send you the two enclosed Letters to prove to you that there are due to the compy. of Kalteiren at Charlestown South Carolina, the following articles upon the due bill granted to that detachment when ready to depart for New York.  vix. 
1.   Sergt. Coat, 
1 -  [Sergt.] vest, 
4 - [Sergt.] woolen overalls - or Linnen overalls if more Suitable to the climat. 
4 - [Sergt.] Shirts.  
The above articles will be charged to Capt. Frye in whose hands they remained after the departure of Leiutt Robinson's detachment.  
thirty pairs of Woolen Socks are also due to that company, besides what will be applied for directly by the Captain for the remainder of his company, to which was to be incorporated the detachment under Lieut. Robeson.  
Respectfully I am, Sir, 
Your obedt Servt 
Step. Rochefontaine  Lt. Col. Commdr of ye corps of Arty & Engrs
Sam: Hodgdon - Esquire
Fort Johnston So Carolina
Jany 4th 1796
I arrived heare with the Detachment for this place on [the] 28th December, after a very disagreeable passage of 29 Days - my Due bill for one Sergts. Coat, one do Vest, four do. woolen overalls & four do Shirts I did not get at Governors Island as Capt Fry had none of those articles - their is a mistake in the socks The return to the Quartr Master specifies 39 pair & on my due bill their is only nine pr. 
I am Sir with Respect your Obdt Servt 
Jona Robeson Lieut. in in the Corps of Arty & Engineers
Lieut Colo Stephen Rochefontaine
Commdr of the Corps of Arty & Engineers
West Point Jany 30th 1797
Sir,
Having compared the Return of Captain McKee for the Clothing due the detachment of Capt. Kalteiren with the Duplicate of the Due Bill given for the balance of the said Clothing, I find the return was for <thirty nine</ins> pair of Socks, & that this Due Bill owing to the pairs being written in two lines, was by mistake for nine pairs only, as stated by Lieut Robeson in his letter of the 4th Inst. - I have reason also to believe that the Sergeants Clothing intended for that detachment & forwarded to Capt. Frye did not arrive in time to be delivered
