---
authors:
- Timothy Pickering
collection_id: 524
collections:
- General Collection
created: '2018-07-16T14:23:52+00:00'
day: '07'
description: Enclosed multiple documents from the President, the French Ministry, and Congress.  Great affection for French expressed, foreign policy passed by Congress.  Treaty with Great Britain relative
  to it possibly violating treaty with France discussed.  Indian policy relative to Gen. Wayne's peace treaty favorable, but has been jeopardized by murders of Creeks in Georgia.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1796010700001'
omeka_image_id: 9834
images:
- 7c1be224676614b40c91ad7c571ff3cbf4da9f83.jpg
- 39befaa40eb75cb12c466cc0d83019a0adbbd91b.jpg
- c976c0fd07e24ba868248a646839e568fe3dc9ef.jpg
- 6179c8a606d8f77a7e2afc6a5ae8a59f1e95833b.jpg
month: '01'
notable_items:
- policy
- treaty
- foreign relations
- violation of treaty
- murder
- peace
- war
notable_locations:
- Department of State
- frontier
- northwest
- Ohio
- river
- France
- Great Britain
notable_persons:
- James Monroe
- Timothy Pickering
- French
- British
- ministers
- George Washington
- President
- Indians
- Creek
- Cherokee
- tribes
- Anthony Wayne
omeka_id: 52514
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- James Monroe
repositories:
- Dartmouth College Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Department of State
title: Discussions on Foreign Policy
year: '1796'
---



See Monroe's view Page 334
7 Jany 1796
respecting flag
[Stamped in upper left hand corner: Part of the Fredrick Chase Collection given by his heirs.]
Department of State Jany. 7. 1796.  
Sir
On the first instant, according to a previous arrangement, the Minister of the French Republic presented to the President of the United States the colours of France.  This was on Friday, and Congress did not meet again till the following Monday, when the colours were presented to the two Houses of Congress with a message from the President and the papers mentioned in it, to wit, an address from the committee of public safety dated the 21st of October 1794, the speech of the French Minister on presenting the colours to the President, and the President's answer; of all which copies are inclosed. 
After the exhibition in the House of Representatives,  the House passed unanimously the enclosed resolve; in pursuance of which to make known their sentiments to the Representatives of the French people, the President has addressed a letter to the Directory of the French Republic, which you will find inclosed, and which you will take the earliest opportunity to deliver.  
With the resolve of the House of Representatives, the President has thought fit to communicate to the Directory, the resolve of the Senate on the same subject, altho' not specially desired to do it.  Thus there will be seen a concurrence of all the branches of Government representing the people of the United 
Colonel Monroe MInister Plenipy &c.
United States in the same affection & friendship for the French Republic.  Copies of that letter & of these resolves, for your information, you will find also inclosed.
In your letter of the 20th of October (the last which has been received) you say that as yet no complaints had been made against our treaty with Great Britain, nor had you heard any thing from the committee on the subject, since their application relative to certain reports respecting it: yet in your postscript you express your opinion that if ratified it would excite great discontents.  
On this point I can only again refer you to my letter of the 25th of September, in which it is demonstrated, that in assenting to the terms of that treaty, the United States infringe no stipulation & violate no duty towards France.  And you have as seen by Mr. Randolph's communications last summer, that all the objections started by the French Minister were completely removed.  
The treaty of peace made by General Wayne with the Indian tribes northwest of the river Ohio has been ratified by the President with the unanimous advice & consent of the Senate.  The Cherokees and Creeks are also at peace with us. Such perfect tranquillity on all our borders was never known since we became an Independent People.  But in the midst of the universal joy which this state of things excited, a few ruffians in Georgia committed some atrocious murders on about twenty Creeks.  This was in September.  Severe retaliation is to be feared; the endeavours were
were immediately used to ward off the evil.  As yet I have heard of but one family that has been struck. 
I have the honor to be with great respect Sir, Your Obedient Servant, Timothy Pickering.
