---
authors:
- William Simmons
collection_id: 779
collections:
- Miscellaneous Numbered Records (Manuscript file) 1775-1790's. (RG93) (M859)
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:00+00:00'
day: '20'
description: Writes Lt. Col. Rochefontaine on the topic of Nehemiah Freeman's duties as regimental paymaster, sees no reason for altering the situation. Addresses arrears of bounty. Encloses a letter from
  Freeman.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1796022021155'
omeka_image_id: 22884
images:
- 5f7d19bf98588c6f01724990393aa4770c48405e.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- ray rolls
- appointed
- defraud
- monies
- instructions
- accounts
- bounty
- recruiting accounts
- list of the names
- payment
- receipt
notable_locations:
- Department of War Accountant's Office
notable_persons:
- Stephen Rochefontaine
- William Simmons
- Nehemiah Freeman
- paymaster
- Corps of Artillerists and Engineers
- regimental paymasters
- Accountant of the War Department
- subaltern officer
- discharged men
- Secretary of War
omeka_id: 52926
page_start: '435'
recipients:
- Stephen Rochefontaine
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Accountant's Office
title: Paymasters and Bounties
year: '1796'
---



Department of War
                                                          Accountants' Office
                                                            February 20th 1796

Lt Col Stephen Rochefontaine.

                                   Sir
                                      I have received your letters of the 7th and 12th Instant.   I consider Mr. Freeman as paymaster of the Corp of Artill.y & E.

in the same point of view (as regards his duties as such) as the other Regimental Pay Masters of the Army, They are chosen by the Officers of the Regiment, in behalf of themselves and their soldiers, and approved of by the Command.r in Chief, who pronounces the person duly chosen in Orders, after this is done they receive the money due their regiments on pay rolls properly authenticated, and are furnish with instructions how to apply the money,and receipt according by to be accountable to the Accountant of the War Department for the faithfull application of the money agreeably to such instruction. 

If the Paymaster so appointed should defraud the Regiment of any monies placed in his hands for pay; they suffer the loss and not the United States, agreeably to those rules I furnished Mr. Freeman with Instructions it was his duty to comply with them, as he was held accountable in the Books of this office for the faithfull application of the monies he received agreeably thereto as a Subaltern Officer in the line, he is totally under the command of his Superior Officer, but when he becomes elected as a Pay Master his duties as such come within the Superintendance of The Accountant. I have therefore furnished instructions accordingly - The law organizing the Corps of Artillerists & Engineers. I well know is still in existence, but I have no knowledge of any part thereof making alterations in the system for keeping Pay Masters account, from the one pursued with those of the Army. Experience has proved they will answer, no difficulty having heretofore arrisen in the settlement of any of their accounts - on the contrary the utmost regularity has been pursued by them and their accounts adjusted without the least difficulty. This being the case, I see no cause for any alteration taking place- I shall therefore continue to pursue the same line of conduct as respects them, as has been the custom heretofore until the alterations (if any) which are to take place is pointed out by Law.

As respects the arrears of Bounty due to soldiers at the point I have to observe that although the Law does not point out that the 4 dollars is to be retained from the soldiers until the Officers settle their recruiting accounts, I would be glad if you will point our how the Balances are to be ascertained, but from such Recruiting accounts - There are a number of men inlisted who receive the whole amou.t of their Bounty, others receive the part of the four dollars, and some may desert, and when they are retaken claim their Bounty. From those circumstances I dont see how the payment can be made with security to the United States - However never wishing to withhold from the soldiers any monies that

that can be ascertained to be due them - I will take any possible steps to obtain the information necessary. If you will furnish me with a list of the names of the soldiers who have arrears due them and the names of the Officer who enlisted them. I will write to the Officers, for the information necessary. This mode tho' it will retard the payment a few days yet as it offers more security to the United states than paying the money immediately on the word of the soldier - I think it preferable, and shall therefore on receipt of the list take every step for the payment of the arrears-

Enclosed you have Mr. Freeman's letter which I return to agreeably to your
request.   That part of your letter which relates to the discharged men, I have
referred to the Secretary of War who will no doubt take the necessary steps, as it
comes properly before him and not in the office. -

                 I am Sir (indecipherable)
                      William Simmons
