---
authors:
- Timothy Pickering
collection_id: 335
collections:
- Misc MSS
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:02+00:00'
day: '10'
description: Letter, discusses difficulties Indian Agents have in accounting for funds; discusses gifts to Indian Chiefs.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1796031000001'
omeka_image_id: 7410
images:
- 5e35561eb6d7f15f977d284f897e583d3af0150f.jpg
- 1e1845cd697924b49ea3cc95fc290229ef5392d0.jpg
- 79c6f29807d2e7c20605bb59b3c7fbffd12ab90a.jpg
- 76e946f9adf83fd7b2beebeae209696b87ded275.jpg
- 38617765121e860251aa04d5523ce7fc649013d8.jpg
- 59818db6aed67ce72d6a9f6cd1f3787fd090bb2e.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- ideas
- Indian Department
- agency discretion
- integrity
- agent
- accounts
- vouchers
- white people
- supplies
- orders
- storekeeper
- issue
- confidence
- prudence and integrity
- principle before stated
- accounts
- obligations
- trust
- sums
- cash paid to certain chiefs
- Treaty of Konondaigua in 1794
- consulted
- distribution
- not a shadow of doubt
- annuity
- good will
- Canandaigua
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- New York
- Canandaigua
- Six Nations
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- Timothy Pickering
- Accountant of the War Department
- Israel Chapin, deputy Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Six Nations
- General Chapin
- General Knox
- Little Billy
- Captain Joseph Brant
- Jasper Parrish.
omeka_id: 53073
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- American Philosophical Society Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Managing Finances Difficult for Indian Agents
year: '1796'
---



Philadelphia March 10. 1796
Sir,
The accountant of the War Department has desired my opinion on the accounts of Israel Chapin, deputy Superinendant of Indian Affairs for the Six Nations. I will take the occasion to express my ideas on the subject at large.
The nature of an agency in the Indian department, necessarily requires that much be left to the discretion and integrity of the agent. After due caution theefore in the choice, his accounts must be admitted without requiring such vouchers as would be proper in doing business with white people. Suppose, for instance, that the agent should furnish no supplies by himself, but give his orders on some storekeeper, for every issue, large or small; what is to check the actual issues?  The Indians can neither read the orders, nor tell whether they receive the quantities ordered, nor give receipts; and it would be impracticable to obtain a witness, to every piddling transaction of the kind.
With regard to the supplies furnished by General Chapin, 
I

I know that entire confidence was reposed in his prudence and integrity: and his son, the present Superintendant, who had gained experience in the employment by assisting his father, was chosen to succeed him because his character for integrity was also unsullied: and therefore, on the principle before stated, those charges in their accounts not accompanied by vouchers usual in other Services, ought nevertheless to be admitted; on their reputation, and the obligations of their official oath faithfully to discharge the trust reposed in them.
In repsect to the sums in case paid to certain chiefs, I remember General Chapin, at the treat at Konondaiqua, in 1794, informed me, confidentially, of his having General Knox's secret instructions to make liberal presents in money to the most influential chiefs, and particularly to Captain Brant, to secure their interest in favour of the U. States; and consulted me about the distribution. and tho' I do no recollect how the distribution was to be made, yet I have not a shadow of doubt but that the Sums charged were faithfully paid. I remember, however, particularly, that in the case of the War Chief called Little Billy, General Chapin & I agreed in the propriety of 
allowing

allowing him an annuity of fifty dollars; and the same was promised to him, to secure his good will and great influence in his tribe and their connections among the other tribes: And in pursuance of that promise, I last summer wrote to Mr. Chapin to make the payment.
The payment ot Captain Brant, as charged in the account, is not certified by Jasper Parrish the interpreter. The reason is obvious. The other chiefs there named do not understand English, the interpreter therefore was called to explain the act of the presents. But Capt. Brant understanding English perfectly well, an interpreter was not called; and I know enough of Capt. Brant to believe that he would nto have received the present but in absolute privacy.
I am very respectfully, Sir, 
your obt Servant
Timothy Pickering
James McHenry Esq
Sec.y of War
