---
authors:
- Timothy Pickering
collection_id: 597
collections:
- 'MMC, McHenry, James: mm85004543'
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:02+00:00'
day: '10'
description: War Department accountant has requested information on accounts of Israel Chapin, deputy commissioner for Indian affairs for the Six Nations. Explains discrepancies in vouchers and accounts
  for Indian agents. Recalls General Knox's instructions to chiefs, influenced by Captain Brant. Maintains that all fees were paid. Refers to agreement with Little Billy and to challenges with translation.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1796031040001'
omeka_image_id: 8621
images:
- 5b96d2fc7080b89aa6be6f29d14fc7a32e235122.jpg
- 559bffcddcbab5164b3b5130012ba5a8cade687c.jpg
- 701da160a5409061d25a01c61cbc5760653d0e62.jpg
month: '03'
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- War Department
- Six Nations
- Indian Department
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- Timothy Pickering
- Accountant
- Israel Chapin
- Indian Commissioner
- Indians
- Indian Chiefs
- Henry Knox
- Captain Brant
- Little Billy
- Jasper Parrish
- Interpreter
note: Cited in Pickering to McHenry, 03/10/1796.
omeka_id: 53079
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '3'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Outlines Accounts for Indian Agent Israel Chapin
year: '1796'
---



Philadelphia March 10. 1796.
Sir,
The accountant of the War Department has desired my opinion on the accounts of Israel Chapin, deputy Superintendant of Indian Affairs for the Six Nations. I will take the occasion to express my ideas on the subject at large.
The nature of an agency in the Indian department, necessarily requires that much be left to the discretion and integrity of the agent. After due caution therefore in the choice, his accounts must be admitted without requiring such vouchers as would be proper in doing business with white people. Suppose for instance, that the agent should furnish no supplies by himself, but give his orders on some storekeeper, for every issue, large or small; what is to check the actual issues the Indians can neither read the order, nor tell whether they receive the quantity ordered, nor give receipts, and it would be impracticable to obtain a witness, to every piddling transaction of the mind.
With regard to the supplies furnished by General Chapin,
I know that entire confidence was [approved?] in his prudence and integrity: and his son, the present Superintendent, who haad gained experience in the employment by assisting his father, was chosen to succeed him, because his character for integrity was also unsullied: and therefore, on the principle before stated, those charges in their accounts not accompanied by vouchers usual in other Services, ought nevertheless to be admitted; on their reputation, and the obligation of their official oath, faithfully to discharge the [undecipherable] in them.
In respect to the sums in cash paid to certain cheifs, I remember General Chapin, at the treaty at Konondaigua, in 1794, informed me, confidentially of his having General Knox's direct instructions to make the liberal presents in money to the most influential chiefs, and particularly to Captain Brant, to secure their interest in favour of the U. States; and consulted me about the distribution. And this I do not recollect how the distribution was to be made, yet I have not a shadow of doubt but that the sums charged were faithfully paid. I remember, however, particularly, that in the case  of the War Chief called Little Billy, General Chapin & I agreed in the [propristy] of allowing
allowing him an annuity of Fifty dollars, and the same was promised to him, to secure his good will and great influence in his tribe and their connections among the other tribes: And in pursuance of that promise, I last summer wrote to Mr. Chapin to make the payment.
The payment ot Captain Brant, as charged in the account, is not certified by Jasper Parrish the interpreter. The reason is obvious. The other Chiefs there named do not understand English; the interpreter therefore was called to explain the act of the presents. But Capt. Brant understanding English perfectly well, an interpreter was not called; and I know enough of Capt. Brant to believe that he would not have received the present but in absolute privacy.
I am very respectfully, Sir,
Your obt servant
Timothy Pickering
James McHenry Esp
Secy of War
