---
authors:
- Constant Freeman
collection_id: 774
collections:
- Claims Files Relating to Service in the Revolutionary War, 1775-1851. (RG217)
content_note: annexed oath mentioned in letter but no annex exists in file.
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:17+00:00'
day: '25'
description: Pay for spies and posts authorized by the President received.  Accounts current and vouchers included in Freeman's letter to Simmons with observations regarding the hiring and pay of spies.  Oath
  taken by spies annexed.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1796052570101'
omeka_image_id: 14577
images:
- dfa736ad9a66d82878acc3749134fcdfd9e586e2.jpg
- 53280f4a405422339db8b10ebda59f9f7dc6a1e0.jpg
- 65dfce3facced7a2d36afdadb8e74d6b4ce96baa.jpg
- 227db2642cdb91f6f0c43948cb40829253646e63.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- stoppage of pay
- pay
- accounts
- receipt rolls
- vouchers
notable_locations:
- Savannah
- Hancock county
- Philadelphia
- post
- fort,
notable_persons:
- William Simmons
- Constant Freeman
- Col. Dorsey
- paymaster general
- General Clarke
- Secretary of war
- Col. Pope
- Brig. Gen. Clarke
- Col. Gaither
- militia
- garrison
omeka_id: 53767
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- William Simmons
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Savannah
title: Account No. 10 and Vouchers Enclosed
year: '1796'
---



Constant Freeman 
received 18 June 
Ans'd
Savannah
30th May 1796. 
Sir, 
Enclosed is the duplicate of my letter to you of the 25th instant of my account current, &c -- the original were sent by Mr. Welder who was to go immediately to Philadelphia.  These papers made so large a package that I supposed they could not be as conveniently sent by the post. 
I have now transmitted to the Secretary of War Capt. Fanche's rolls for the services of his Corps - he has not been authorized by the President of the United States, but has been called into service under peculiar circumstances.  I have not had time, since I have received them to make any examination - I set off in a few hours for St. Mary's.  I have also applied to the Secretary of War for leave of absence for a few weeks.  I hope you will second my wishes.
I have discovered a mistake which I have made in the payroll for the Bunost Fort, from the 1st July to the 30th September 1795 Voucher No. 42 of the account current.  Michl Sryers died on the 1st of July, and not the 28th of Augt.  Your will therefore charge me with twelve dolls & eighty seven cents, for which I have credited him on the said roll.  
I have heard nothing of the recruiting money you informed me should be remitted.  
I am with great esteem Sir Your humble servant 
Const Freeman  [Alle D?] 
William Simmons Esqe
A. D. W.
Duplicate.
Savannah
25th May 1796
Sir
Wylie Hope, the paymaster of the militia has been with me and received the money for the pay of the spies and the posts authorized by the President of the United States.  Enclosed are my Account Current No. 10 and vouchers upon which I shall made a few observations.
The vouchers from No. 2 to 9 inclusively have been compared with the receipt rolls which you transmitted to me - where I have had duplicates I have taken the paymaster's receipt thereon and I now transmit them, but in some instances, as the spies for Hancock County, the only rolls were sent to your office, and the receipts have been taken conformably to your receipt notes.  On some of those now forwarded the oath has not been written, but the commanding officer of the county certifies that the spies were mutered upon oath.  It is to be observed although the Secretary of War directed that the spies should be mustered upon oath, he did not order any particular form; and the officers under whose direction they have been placed have never omitted to take their deposition as to the services they actually performed - the oath which you will find annexed to some of the rolls was a form given by the late Col. Dorsey, when he did the duty of paymaster of the militia.  I should however suppose it unnecessary when the certificate of the commanding officer of the county is annexed, as on the notes of General Blalckburne's division and those under the direction of Brigr Genl Clarke - these gentlemen were very desirous of doing this business properly, the manner in which they have sworn the spies they have conceived fully answering the intention of the Secretary of War.  I have, however, directed Col. Hope not to pay any who shall be borne on a roll to which the oath is not annexed, until they shall produce their depositions in writing - this
this will make a great deal of trouble.  Those borne on the rolls No. 29, and from 33 to 39 inclusively were attached to the posts  whose garrisons were mustered by Ensn McCall, pursuant to the instructions of the Secretary of War to me - they were also sworn - it was found conducive to the good of the service that the spies should be thus attached to the posts, and as Mr. McCall found them there, he thought it proper to muster them.  It would have been better if they had all been mustered in this manner.  
There are some rolls for the posts on the frontiers which have not been returned to me - You will observe that I have paid of those included in the estimate transmitted to you on the 4th of April - The Burnt Fort from the 1st January to the 30th, September 1795, Fort Defence from the 10th January to 31st December 1798 - and the spies under the direction of Genl Clarke.  I have directed Col Pope to pay the detachments at Fort Gordon & Carr's Bluff out of the money arising from the stoppages to be made from the spies for rations of provision & forage which have been issued to them.  The rolls on that estimate for Forts Carnes & Habersham have been returned as they were not properly made out.  I now enclose you another estimate of militia rolls which have been examined by me and are retained in the hands of the paymaster of the militia.  
With respect to the balance on my account current, I have to observe that Five thousand, eight hundred and fifteen dollars 51/100 belong to the regular troops for their pay &c to the first of January - One thousand, one hundred and eighty eight dollars 69/100 to the militia and the sum of Two thousand, seven hundred & seventy three dollars 64/100 I am to account for the contingent expences and my salary  I have before mentioned to you in my letter of the 27th of February, that I have not charged my salary since the 10th of December 1793.  I submit to you whether it would not be proper to remit me part, or the whole of this last sum, as you will find upon calculation that, exclusively of the charge of contingencies the United States will owe me a small balance.  I wish however this account to    [left margin: 5.815.51 + 1.188.69 + 2.773.64 = 9.777.84]
this account to be kept open, until I can make a settlement at your office.  
Enclosed is a muster roll, and a payroll for the troop of dragoons commanded by Capt. Randolph, authorized by the President of the United States for the year 1795, included in the estimate before mentioned.  It is to be observed that, this troop has been raised upon as established totally different from any heretofore.  I refer you to my letter to the Secretary of War, of the 9th January 1795 in which was enclosed a copy of the governor's orders to Capt. Randolph, whether the pay will be allowed agreeably to these orders, or to the Act of the 2d January 1795 must be determined as the H. Office - in either case.  I shall be obliged to you to send the money as soon as the rolls shall have been examined.  One horse has been killed by the Indians, as per muster roll, for which the governor engaged one hundred dollars should be paid.  
Col. Pope has delivered to me a statement of his account, and the rolls which he has paid in full.  They are now enclosed. I also enclosed the muster rolls for the the spies which you have heretofore required.  
I propose to go to St. Mary's in a few days in order to pay the troops in that quarter.  I have been expecting Mr. McCall would come to this place, but as there are but few subalterns with the troops, Colo. Gaither has found it necessary to detain him.  The regular troops will expect their pay for the first three months of the present year.  I should forward you an estimate for the purpose if I were possessed of the necessary information.  
It appears to me highly proper that I should visit Philadelphia in order to make a settlement at your office.  When I shall have paid the troops the money I now have in my hands, I may be spared from this country for a few weeks.  It would be also proper that I should see you that I might fully understand the nature of my business and enter into such explanations as cannot be done at a distance.  This will be the fourth summer I have been in this country.  I request you would speak to the Secretary of War up on
upon this subject, if you should think my demand reasonable; and you will greatly oblige me to write me as soon as possible upon this business, per post and by water if an opportunity should offer as the season is now advanced.  
I am with great esteem Sir Your humble servant, Const Freeman A. W. D. 
 Duplicate  
C. Freeman
25th May 1796. 
William Simmons Esqr A. D. W.
