---
authors:
- James McHenry
collection_id: 273
collections:
- Northwest Territory Collection, M367
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:17+00:00'
day: '25'
description: McHenry warns Wayne of the presence of three men (Thomas Powers, Victor de Collot and Joseph Warin) who intend to reconnoiter the United States' military position in the western country and
  encourage people to secede from the union.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1796052513001'
omeka_image_id: 10981
images:
- 0fcf6aac825fb399403a91f2e79109d3adee0be1.jpg
- cb1b8088cd7d8524ed3dcf7a34c1a00656e9e5c6.jpg
- e09bc161a590ca589ae27f2c71dd14ae21ccfaee.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- secession
- spying
- traitors
- punishment
- foreign power
- physical description
- french
- emissaries
- arrested
notable_locations:
- War Office
- Western Country
- Canary Islands
- West Indies
- Guadalupe
- Pittsburgh
- Ohio River
- Shawanese town
- New Orleans
- Vincennes
- Vincents
- Kentucky
- Southwestern Territory
- Fort Washington
- Fort Defiance
- Louisiana
- Detroit
- Illinois River
notable_persons:
- Anthony Wayne
- James McHenry
- Thomas Powers
- Victor de Collot
- Joseph Warin
- Henry Breckenridge
- President
omeka_id: 53765
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '3'
recipients:
- Anthony Wayne
repositories:
- Indiana Historical Society Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Report of Suspected Traitors
year: '1796'
---



[left bracket To A. Wayne right bracket]
Sir
The President has received information that certain emissaries are employed and paid, to gain a knowledge of our military ports in the Western country, and to encourage and stimulate the people in that quarter to secede from the union, and form a political and separate connexion with a foreign power
The persons more particularly named for this employment are a Powers, De Callot & Warin.  It is said also that these men have received written instructions for their government, and letters to influential citizens in the district of country that has been designated as the field for their operations.
Powers is about thirty five years of age; of Irish descent, born in one of the Canary Islands, educated at St. [indecipherable] bred a physician; a man of Science; Seemingly versatile; and speaks French Spanish and English fluently and so vernacular languages.
De Gallot is a French man, has commanded as a general officer in the West Indies; full six feet high; about 45 years of age and speaks English very well.
Warin is also a French man; was lately a [indecipherable] engineer in the service of the US. (which he resigned for his present employment) speaks English tolerably; about 30 years of age; above six feet high; black hair, ruddy complexion and easy manners.  He has acted as adjutant general in [indecipherable].
The route of these emissaries (at least one or more of them) is by Pittsburg down the Ohio to the old Shawanese town; thence across the Ohio thro’ the lower parts of Kentucky and South Western territory; thence to the [indecipherable] of Ohio; thence to port Vincent; thence to St. [indecipherable]; and thence down to New Orleans.  It is also intended that one, if not two of them, shall visit our line of forts from Washington to Fort Defiance inclusive, and if permission is obtained, go from the latter by way of Detroit and the Ilinois down to Louisiana.
But as these emissaries were at Pittsburg on the 5th inst. and were to remain at that place or in its neighbour hood about a fortnight it may perhaps be in your power, on your arrival there, to ascertain their route with more certainty,
[Written vertically in the left margin is the date May 25 1796]
from going abroad that you suspect the country to be visited by spies.  Mr Breckenridge will perhaps call upon you and may give you some information respecting them.  If he does, receive it as new matter; and a thing that you will attend to without coincisive [indecipherable] lately, in opinion with him that they are emissaries, should he be for it, and tell him that you will keep an eye upon them should they come within your reach and manifest traiterous intentions.
Should the information respecting these men be founded of which there is no reason to doubt, and their suspicions in no ways alarmed, circumstances will necessarily emerge at every front they may visit that must betray their traitorous errand and justify their arrest and seizure of their papers for examination.  Of this you will judge, and take measures to prevent their being destroyed or concealed.
And yet it may happen in order to guard against a discovery of the fact which would criminate them most in case of their arrest that they may have left their instructions with some person or in a place of safety.  Should they have used this kind of precaution, and should their traitorous interactions have been sufficiently indicated by other circumstances they may perhaps be disposed to discover them in the hope of [indecipherable] for them a mitigation of their punishment.  You will not however understand by this that either rigorous or unlawful measures means are to be employed to obtain them; for tho’ the crimes of traitors affect a whole people, it is nevertheless proper to respect the rights of humanity in their chastisement.
I have no doubt, therefore, but that you will observe a line of proceeding in this business confirmable to the nature of the case.  You know the powers of a commander, the measures which the safety of the forts he is intrusted with, exact and acquire, and how far the military laws apply to spies and emissaries found within their jurisdiction in time of peace.  For these points it is unnecessary to remark.
I would observe only in general, that should either of the before named persons be arrested, and papers be found upon showing unlawful designs, copies of them are to be taken and certified y some of the officers present, and with the originals, certified in like manner, sent to the Dept of War by separate and trusty persons.  You will also inform me minutely of every thing touching their detection arrest and examination.  With great respect I have the honor to be Sir your most, [indecipherable]
James McHenry S.W.
