---
authors:
- Michael G. Houdin
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:17+00:00'
day: '26'
description: Houdin has not seen Mr. Dickenson yet but will do so as soon as he comes to Albany. He wants to be given notce if there are to be any movements or alterations in the department as a judge in
  Albany informed him that Congress should be meeting soon.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1796052680101'
omeka_image_id: 13167
images:
- 3e0e1b96ce147ba81ff3848c189151265c6c986d.jpg
month: '05'
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Albany
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- '[Michael G.] Houdin'
omeka_id: 53778
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Albany
title: Trying to See Mr. Dickenson, Etc.
year: '1796'
---



[Return address in upper right corner, oriented towards left margin.]
Michael G. Houdin
26th May 1796
[Undecipherable] 31st
[Positioned directly below return address. Also oriented toward left margin. Written in a different hand, possibly in pencil.]
158 [Circled.]

[Positioned slightly below 158 and also rotated as above. This text was stamped or typed.]
Received 
from
State Dep't.
Nov. 24 1894
R.P.O. 401310.

[Recipient's address, positioned in middle of paper within a rectangle. Oriented toward right margin.]
[First line of rectangle, directly above recipient's name.  This date appears to have been printed mechanically.]
MAY.26
[Handwritten in first line of rectangle, in top left corner.]
20
 
Saml. Hodgdon Esquire
Superintendt. of all Ordinances
military & naval stores of the U.S.
Philadelphia
[Underscored with a fluorish.]
[Located in upper left margin, the text immediately below was stamped or typed.] 
Received 
from
State Dep't.
Nov.24.1894.
R.P.O.401310
[Original hand-written text begins below.]
Albany 26th... of May 1796.
Sir
I have receiv'd your favour with the enclosed Post Bank note, and am much obliged to you for sending it. --
it has not been in My Power to See Mr. Dickenson Yet, But i shall watch every opportunity to meet him at his first came in to Albany, & Will inform You.  Should it be any Probability, Sir, of some mouvements or alterations in the department I am now in i woud be very thank full if You woud be so obliging as to Give me notice, as Judge Landing Living in Albany has informed me that Congress Probably Should ride on the 26th.. insteat. --
My Sincere Wishes for Your and Well-fare and family are & will be the Same forever, all together with the great Esteem that i am with. --
Sir.
Your most obedient & humble Servant
houdin [Editor's note: Flourish is to the left and under "houdin."]
Saml. Hodgdon Esqre. .. Superintdt. &. a--
