---
author_note: William Simmons
authors:
- William Simmons
collection_id: 769
collections:
- Miscellaneous Letters Sent by the Accountant of the War Department and the Second Auditor, Apr 14, 1795-May 5, 1886. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:23+00:00'
day: '17'
description: Discusses oaths and service of "spies"; Freeman's muster rolls; lack on funds for Freeman's salary; the muster rolls of Captain Randolph's company of dragoons; and the pay of the regular troops
  in Georgia
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1796061721155'
omeka_image_id: 22661
images:
- 2d6c4e25f70adeca32d58d6b43f9d14045f03f2f.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- oath
- muster rolls
- funds
- salary
- pay
- vouchers
- militia rolls
- estimate
notable_locations:
- Accountants Office
- Georgia
notable_persons:
- Constant Freemen
- William Simmons
- Captain Randolph
- dragoons
- regular troops in Georgia
- Wylie Pope
- spies
- Secretary of War
omeka_id: 53993
page_start: '108'
recipient_note: Constant Freeman
recipients:
- Constant Freeman
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Accountants Office
title: Army spies, muster rolls, and pay
year: '1796'
---



(Duplicate
Letter from The Accot to 
Constant Freeman Esqr 
dated 17 June 1796.
(Duplicate)
Department of War
Accountants Office
June 17th 1796
Sir
My last letter to you was of the 10th Inst. since which I have received your Letter of the 25th Ulto. together with your account Current & the accompanying vouchers.   
The mode you have pursued in making the payments to Wylie Pope & the Instructions to him relative to the oath of the Spies, I conceive to be perfectly right.  The Muster Roll should shew that the Spies were sworn at the commencent and ending of service agreeably to the Secretary of War Instructions.  Although this mode may produce a great deal of trouble, yet notwithstanding I conceive it to have been the Secretary's intention when he gave the Instructions.  
The estimate of Militia Rolls which was enclosed and examined by you I have laid before the Secretary of war - that part of it which is authorized will be forwarded to you as early as possible and the unauthorized part will of course stand on the same footing as the other estimates forwarded for like services.  
As regards your Salary, I have to inform you that the state of the Treasury is such at present that no remittances can be made,
when this difficulty is removed which no doubt will take place ere long, I will consult with the Secretary of War on the subject & if he is agreed to forward money for that purpose I have no objection.  In the meantime your account may remain open until a final settlement is made with you.  
The Muster & Pay Roll of Captain Randolph, Company of Dragoons I have not had time to peruse - when the money is ready to be forwarded you will be informed on what Principle the Settlement is to be made.  
I received Mr. Popes account Current with the accompanying vouchers and the Muster Rolls of the spies heretofore required by me. 
I have rendered an estimate (taken from a return of Cole Gaither) to the the Secretary of War, for the Pay Subsistence and forage of the regular troops in your quarter for the months of Jany, Feby, March, April & May 1796 the amount of which will be forwarded as soon as possible.  
As soon as I have an opportunity I will consult with the Secretary of War on the subject of your visiting this place.  If you can possibly be spared I dare say he will readily agree to the measure - of this I will inform you in a few days.  
I am Sir your most obedt St
Wm Simmons
Constant Freeman Esqr
Savannah Georgia
