---
authors:
- James McHenry
collection_id: 974
collections:
- James McHenry Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:27+00:00'
day: '07'
description: McHenry informs Washington that there are a surplus of materials from the construction of three frigates that can be used for the construction of a frigate promised to the Dey of Algiers. McHenry
  asks Washington whether the Department of War or the Department of State should oversee this process. McHenry concludes by updating Washington on the French victory in Sardinia.
doc_types:
- Autograph Draft Letter Signed
document_number: '1796070714001'
omeka_image_id: 19227
images:
- f6e53ee15edc54c7f11914547147d4bd78363a95.jpg
- 08eb9dd4c339767d42ba72e39fc34992ed9e7193.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- Weather
- heat
- frigates
- materials
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Algiers
- Mount Vernon
- Sardinia
- France
notable_persons:
- George Washington
- James McHenry
- Timothy Pickering
- Chevalier Frure
- Madam Frure
- Dey of Algiers
- Navy
- Congress
- state departments
- French
- military
note: Private. Cited in Washington to McHenry, 07/13/1796 and McHenry to Washington, 07/16/1796.
omeka_id: 54193
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- George Washington
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Construction of a frigate for the Dey of Algiers
year: '1796'
---



Philadelphia 7 July 1796
Private
Sir
Since my past letter I had the honour of visiting you, the Chevalier Frure's secretary has called to inform me, that the extreme heat of the weather had induced Madam Frure to induce the Chevalier to postpone the projected visit to Mount Vernon till September.  You will not therefore I presume have the pleasure of seeing them.
Mr Pickering has mentioned to me that such of the materials as are not wanted for the three frigates now building, may be employed in the construction of the frigate promised to the Dey of Algiers.  If it should be determined so to use the materials and to commence the building of this frigate before the meeting of Congress, will it belong to the Department of War or Department of State to have her built and equipped?  From the words of the laws instituting the two departments it would seem to fall under the duties prescribed or asscertaining specified to the former, so far at least, as respects building and equipping her.  I do not wish to have new duties assigned to me; but if it if matters relative to vessels of war belongs to the department of war (of which you will judgeif on looking over the  laws instituting the general departments) it might give 
[Stamped: Photocopied from original in William L. Clements Library, University of Michigan.  Permission of Library Director Required for Reproduction, Use, or Publication.  Deposit of this copy in other institutions is strictly prohibited.]
possibly give rise to remarks were it to be assigned to a different one.  Should you think however, that it comes more properly within the abilities of the department of State, not that of war, I shall be prefectly satisfied.  
I do not know that Mr Pickering has formed any opinion on this question, or that it has been secured to him, period.  I do not wish it to pass beyond yourself that I have suggested any [undecipherable] on the subject because it would look (which is very [undecipherable] from the truth) as if I was either desirous to have the management of the building, or was jealous of encroachment on the department.  
You have no doubt recd the accounts of the success of the French arms in Sardinia - I am disposed to think that what has happened there will produce peace with the Emperor.  
With the sincerest respect, I have the honour to be Sir Your most ob svt James McHenry
7 July 1796 To Mr P. U. S. The President of the U. S. 
[Stamped: Photocopied from original in William L. Clements Library, University of Michigan. Permission of Library Director Required for Reproduction, Use, or Publication. Deposit of this copy in other institutions is strictly prohibited.]
