---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:33+00:00'
day: '05'
description: Uncertainty in receiving flour from late contractor M. Ernest, Craig awaiting instructions on verity of contract.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1796080540101'
omeka_image_id: 21233
images:
- b243b494f6c7585a82970fe1a62616c710e51fa1.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- provisions
- supplies
- flour
- contract
- sloop
- Sloop Detroit
notable_locations:
- Pittsburgh
- Presque Isle
- Presque'isle
- Le Boeuf
- post
- territory
- frontier
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- Isaac Craig
- Matthew Ernest
- contractor
- Secretary of Treasury
- Oliver Wolcott Junior
- Tench Francis
- Tenche Francis
- General Anthony Wayne
- Scott
omeka_id: 54547
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Instructions for Dealing with Contractors
year: '1796'
---



155
Pittsburg 5th August 1796
Sir
In my absence whilst at Presqu'isle & Le Boeuf your Letter of the 16th Ultimo was recd. and its contents communicated to Mattw. Ernest one of the late Contractors in consequence of which Mr. Ernest has made the enclosed Statement to which he has made oath and has again called upon me to receive the Flour but as I have not had any information either from you or the Secretary of the Treasury of the Contract or rather instructions that Mr. Ernest mentions to have received from Tenche Francis I still am desirous of declining receiving the Flour until I have further instruction from you respecting it & particularly as I have reason to believe that Gen. Wayne in his requisition made to the present Contractor for provision for the several Posts did not know of nor contemplate any flour being then in the hands of the old Contractors. Is it not therefore probable that the present Contractor will insist upon the whole quantity required by the Commander in Chief being received & which I presume will be equal to a full supply of the Army? What is therefore to be done with the flour now offered by Messrs Scott & Ernest? be pleased to inform me by the return of the post if possible as Mr. Ernest is very importunate to have it off ihs hands. The packet enclosed directed to you I received at Presqu'isle on the 25th. Ultimo by the arrival of the United States Sloop Detroit at that post.
I am, Sir,
Your Obt Servt.
I.C.
Hon. James Mc.Henry
Secy of War
