---
authors:
- Constant Freeman
collection_id: 774
collections:
- Claims Files Relating to Service in the Revolutionary War, 1775-1851. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:35+00:00'
day: '17'
description: Simmons agreed with Freeman on the subject of mustering spies upon entering military service.  Freeman sought brief leave from public service for a few weeks.  Account Current No 11 and vouchers
  enclosed.  Notations on arrangement of troops from Pennsylvania and Virginia.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1796081770001'
omeka_image_id: 14579
images:
- 1db17eac6e62940199f60f82da1fdb5c1abf5139.jpg
- 567224322ea876221596589d7339cdaa6bfad6a6.jpg
- eb387fadbde2550a2257ee0f776f7ab8bcb8ba9a.jpg
- bdce748a5b972765eac8095a46f5e4278b35d16d.jpg
month: 08
notable_locations:
- Fort Pickering
notable_persons:
- William Simmons
- Constant Freeman
note: Cited in Simmons to Freeman 09/23/1796
omeka_id: 54651
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- William Simmons
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Fort Pickering
title: Muster of Spies Never Completed, Pay Withheld
year: '1796'
---



Constant Freeman 
recd 14 Sepr
Ansd 16th
Fort Pickering
17th Augt 1796
Sir
I have to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 17th of June.   
I am happy that you approve of the manner in which I have transacted the business with Mr. Pope.  I have no doubt but it was the intention of the Secretary of War that, the spies should have been mustered when they entered the service - but from neglect either in themselves or the officers from whom they received their orders, this was never done - the men have, generally, been discharged some time before the paymaster has received their rolls.  I have done every thing in my power to introduce regularity - but it is impossible to comply fully with the Secretary's instructions upon this subject.  It would afford me the greatest pleasure could I bring the militia business to a close: I wish a final decision had been made upon estimates for the unchanged services.  
I am not in the least anxious to receive my salary; I mentioned it to you in my letter of the 25th of May, in order to account for the balance which appeared by my account current to be on hand - I would rather wish it should remain until I can settle my accounts at your office.  It would be well, however, to have regard to it, in any calculation you may make respecting the pay of the troops in this quarter.  
If the public service would admit of my absence from this country for a few weeks, I should improve any indulgence the Secretary of War might grant me for this purpose.  This must however depend upon circumstances - I should not wish to go from hence to the northward in the winter; if therefore I cannot obtain the furlough soon, I should prefer remaining here until the next spring: In the mean time I may possibly make great progress in settling with the militia.  
I now enclose my Account Current No. 11 & vouchers.  The balance of Four thousand and seven hundred and ninety three dollars and seventy five cents, is thus accounted for, Money on hand, including one hundred and
[left margin - mathematical equation: 1,822.00 [+] 2,971.78 = 4,793.78]
and twenty four dollars, sent to Fort Fidius for the salary of Mr. Whitney, and for a balance due to Lieut. Van Allen - Eighteen hundred and twenty two dollars - and the sum of Two thousand and twenty two dollars - and the sum of Two thousand and nine hundred and seventy one dollars and seventy five cents; expended by my salary, contingent and necessary expences, in the same manner as mentioned in my letter of the 25th of May.
The troops who came out from Virginia & Pennsylvania have been arranged into three companies commanded by Capts. Eaton, Tinsley & Dickinson; and all have been paid to the 31st of December inclusively.  There are some men in Capt. Eaton's company who he received from the officer commanding at Mudfort - we have not been able to ascertain the dates of their enlistments: notes are made against their names on the muster roll - if you have any information upon this subject in your office, I shall be obliged to you to transmit it.  
I return the List which you sent me of the balances of bounties due to the men enlisted by Lieuts Trigg and Posey, in order that you may compare Capts Tinsley and Eaton's accounts therewith - they are now transmitted and I request you would be pleased to have them examined as soon as possible, particularly Capt. Eaton's and inform me of the result.  Capt. Nicoll has given me an account to transmit to you - there appears to be justice in his claim: if he had not done the duty of Surgeon, it is probable a Surgeon's mate would have been ordered to Fort St. Tammany - the expence to the United States is less in the present instance.  I also request you would inform me whether you have made any examination of Capt. Dickinson's accounts, which I forwarded by Lieut. Morris, and what has been your decision thereon.  
Enclosed is the duplicate of my letter to you of the 29th of July and the estimate for the pay &c. of the troops for June & July. 
Ensign McCall improves this conveyance to forward his account current and vouchers.  The account current is my voucher No. 8.  He has also transmitted his vouchers from No 68 to 72 inclusively accounting
accounting for Two thousand, one hundred and twenty nine dollars & ninety nine cents. he would have completed his settlement, but he has not received the rolls from Fort Fidius.
I hope I shall soon receive the money for the troops.  
Blank muster and pay rolls are very much wanted by the officers.  I request you would send me some.  
Mr. Hagner's letter of the 6th of last month has been received.  I shall attend to the contents.  
I am with great esteem Sir Your humble Servant 
Const. Freeman 
A. W. D. 
William Simmons Esqr. 
A. D. W.
