---
authors:
- Alexander Hamilton
collection_id: 991
collections:
- Executive Papers, Office of Governors Letters
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:37+00:00'
day: '25'
description: Conveyed Presidential appointment of Lee to command militia in campaign to suppress insurgents in the western part of Pennsylvania.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1796082537001'
omeka_image_id: 15250
images:
- 265b569bc475c06370a00ef2c724328893ac9e40.jpg
- 991843ea0fcf84be9940db750e730f4be999ad16.jpg
- 3bc476153bed40688345c5b96b256eb2d74d0efb.jpg
- 5952db789f5e37a018b297258ab186ea9f0f644e.jpg
- 499b01e10f909c522e4c4472e2f945acc4ce105d.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- command
- coercion
- suppressing
- political society
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Virginia
- Pennsylvania
- frontier
- Western parts
- York
- New York
notable_persons:
- Henry Lee
- Alexander Hamilton
- President
- militia
- Secretary of War
- insurgents
- Governor of Virginia.
omeka_id: 54719
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Henry Lee
repositories:
- 'Virginia State Library: Archives and Records Branch'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: 'COPY: Command of Militia for Whiskey Rebellion'
year: '1796'
---



Copies of Hamiltons [Ltre?] to Govr Lee & his answer - respectg the command of the Army agt the Isurgents 
Novr 20th 1794
To whole on Co
War department August 25 1796
Sir,
In place of the Secretary of War, who is absent, I am instructed by the President to signify to you his wish and request that you will come forth in the command of the militia, which is to be detached from Virginia against the Insurgents in the Western parts of Pennsylvania in which case you will have the command of the whole force that may be employed upon that enterprize. 

The president anticipates, that it will be as painful to you to execute, as it is to him to direct, measures of coertion against fellow citizens however misled.  Yet he needed not the assurance you have already given him of the sense you entertain of their conduct and its consequences, to be convinced that he might count even on your zealous personal service, towards suppressing an example fatal in its tendency to every thing that is dear and valuable in political society.  
With the greatest respect & attachment I have the honor to be your Excellency's most obedt & humble servant 
Alex Hamilton
His Excellency, Henry Lee Esqr Governor and Commander in Chief of Virginia
A copy.  
York

York Town September 1st 1794
Sir, 
I am this moment honored with your letter of the 25th ultimo.  
The President has justly anticipated the feelings of my mind on the solemn occasion.  I lament deeply the cause.  I regret as deeply the necessity of resorting to the Bayonet to compel our fellow citizens to submit to the Constitution and law of the people.  But I also feel a thorough conviction of the justice of his conduct and hesitate not a moment in declaring my decision to afford my best support of his measures.  Would to god it had been required in a station better fitted to my talents and less important to our common Country - I should not then have experienced the additional pain which very keenly passes me from my knowledge of my inadequacy to the duties of the very responsible station to which he has been pleased to call me.  The high honor which his approbations always conveys, is extremely appreciated by the manner of his choice of me and fills my mind with the deepest gratitude.  The best return I can make will be by the constant and zealous coertion of my humble abilities in the line of my duty, and this I promise to do, and ardently pray that the supreme ruler of the universe will be propitious to my endeavors.  I
I shall wait your further order and in the meantime execute one object of my mission below, which your letter of the 18th so amply explains, then return to Richmond ready to move at a moment's warning.  
I have &c
Henry Lee
To Alex Hamlilton Esq: Secretary of the Treasury
A copy
