---
authors:
- Oliver Wolcott, Jr.
collection_id: 257
collections:
- Oliver Wolcott Jr. Papers.
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:42+00:00'
day: '17'
description: Wolcott discusses the measures taken to relieve the want of flour in General Wayne's Army, confusion over shipments.
doc_types:
- Autograph Draft Letter
document_number: '1796091740001'
omeka_image_id: 10617
images:
- 9d1be2cc77f699b2a5a448fe60c0a30f97d23b51.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- letter
- transaction
- want of flour
- flour
- barrels
- contract
notable_locations:
- Treasury Department
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- Oliver Wolcott, Jr.
- Nathan Jones
- Isaac Craig
- General Wayne
- Anthony Wayne
- army
- Alexander Scott
- purveyor
- Ernest
- Mr. Ellicot
note: Difficult to read.
omeka_id: 54961
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- Connecticut Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Treasury Department
title: Suffering for a Want of Flour
year: '1796'
---



Tr. D. Septr. 17th.'96
Sir,
Mr. Nathan Jones has transmitted to me a Copy of Mr. Isaac Craig's Letter to your Department dated the 9th. instant. My understanding of the transaction which has occasioned so much difficulty [undecipherable] is as follows.
Representations were made from your Department & by General Wayne, that the Army was in great danger of suffering for want of flour. As no Contract could be immediately obtained, an a conditional agreement was made with Mr. Alex. Scott by the Purveyor, that [undecipherable] measures should be taken for the purchase of about one thousand Barrells to be forwarded without delay. [undecipherable] It was understood that if Mr. Scott obtained the new Contract, the flour so purchased & forwarded was to be recd. agreably to such terms as should be [undecipherable] [undecipherable]. Yet if Mr. Scott
did not obtain the new Contract, the public was to take the flour at the first Cost, & to accru a Comm. from purchasing the same. Seven thousand Dolls were advanced against to Mr. Scott on these conditions. Mr. Ernest, [undecipherable] [undecipherable] understood to be the [undecipherable] who made the purchases, & so has aff declared, that the flour in question was purchased under the agreement with the Purveyor. No more has been purchased than was necessary the representations of Genl Wayne [undecipherable] have been mistaken. At the time the agreement was made I am certain that the General[undecipherable] the [undecipherable] wants of the Army to be [undecipherable].
As matters are circumstanced, I am satisfied that no advantages can arise from Mr. Craig [undecipherable].
On the contrary, the loss, if any is [undecipherable], and will probably be in [undecipherable]. Mr Ellicot will I understand want some flour supplies, which may be advantagiusly furnished, from the quantity in dispute.
I am
The Secy of War
