---
authors:
- William Vans Murray
collection_id: 681
collections:
- James McHenry Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:48+00:00'
day: 09
description: Murray writes a friend letter to McHenry, discussing his need for a boarding house during the session, as well as political news from Baltimore, French politics, and casual greetings.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1796100940001'
omeka_image_id: 9145
images:
- 297643724ddfda009defbf574e43c17f93389544.jpg
- 5052cd4c63c76f55856800a3c73a2d731564f58c.jpg
- cd6be249a7ae2af94ac4864368429d4c291389a5.jpg
- 463818f4f09a8ade2dbcfde5af6c5639abad0737.jpg
- b12433b1d6b83b0a221213b3fea931718d2ae5d1.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- campaign
- boarding house
- seeding plow
- elector
- London paper
- lodgings
- government
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Baltimore
- Madrid
- France
- London
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- William Murray
- Winchester
- French
- John Adams
- Jones
- Thomas Jefferson
- Jacobins
- Fauchet
- Colonel Harrison
omeka_id: 55204
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '5'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- Huntington Library
resource_type: Document
title: Asks for Housing, General News
year: '1796'
---



My dear Jem,

Can you descend so far from the
minister of the cabinet to be the minister of my
winter accommodation? -- In fact the ex:member
must have a boarding house this winter & he
knows of no house except the house where he
was all last session - at the close & on [undecipherable]
Settlement he [undecipherable] in <ins>two days</ins> from [M?] Jones
but suppose that would hardly [undecipherable] a
ground of compl[undecipherable] to the old lady.  If you
could send to know if [undecipherable] would take it for
this session I shall be most obliged & if you [undecipherable]
[undecipherable] really grateful as we shall be near you.
You perceive as I have often perceived that it is the most irksome & troublesome thing in this world <ins>to have friends</ins> -- it really is so -- but in this life it can not be avoided and as it is my last campaign I hope you will help me into so eligible a position.

The accounts from Baltimore that reach this place are all in favour of W. J. -- & the party [undecipherable] w<sup>d</sup> have us believe that all men of that town are for him, but I hear that Howard is to be their <ins>elector</ins> & he will be right -- I hear not one word of <ins>Winchester</ins> as an Elector -- however I hope always for the best --.

The French drive on wonderfully.  Their memorial to the [undecipherable] of Madrid is well worthy of circulation in U. S.  It
<ins>2</ins> sets out with a flat contradicti to the material of the Jacobins of [undecipherable] country & those of the French [undecipherable] who for three years, Fauchet included, have harassed our  politics.  The favourite position of such & in particular of Fauchet, has been that, in the [undecipherable] of [undecipherable] the [undecipherable] & only these [undecipherable] among Republics was in a <ins>Similitude of political form</ins> of [undecipherable] -- In this exquisite memorial is the [undecipherable] emphatically said -- That this is not the best basis -- that interest is the best [undecipherable]  I had not seen it til I met with it some days since in a London paper belonging to Col. Harrison -- it is of March or May last & ought to be in [undecipherable]  M.'Adams indeed in 81 chose that principally as the basis of his memorial to the S.S. -- & it helped him out much -- It would [undecipherable] to our innocent & [undecipherable] philanthropy [undecipherable] the French out
in different places, [undecipherable] diferent principles -- & in Madrid language fight at symptoms without fixed theory -- this is temporary good to them & very bad for others who [undecipherable] too warmly.

But my man says my seeding plough is broken & I must seed my corn ground --. So I conclude with a hope that I shall hear from you by [undecipherable] time in [undecipherable] if you have time to do me this favour.

I am affectionately

always [undecipherable]

WJMurray

Oct 01, 1796
