---
authors:
- James McHenry
collection_id: 393
collections:
- Interleaved document in Washington Irving's Life of George Washington.
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:50+00:00'
day: '24'
description: Secretary at War details federal measures to pacify the frontier to Governor Irwin. Mentions assignment of Benjamin Hawkins as agent.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1796102400001'
omeka_image_id: 10244
images:
- 4b7aca43ee068aadd5ab15d5162012e5ad16b140.jpg
- 6cabe2a4ff1986f6989068fb24c83b90875fd02f.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- orders
- thieving
- act
- murder
- compensation
notable_locations:
- War Office
- Philadelphia
- Georgia
- Creek Nation
- frontier
- Oconee
notable_persons:
- Governor Jared Irwin
- James McHenry
- dragoons
- Benjamin Hawkins
- Creek Indians
- President George Washington
- militia
- Cussetaw Chiefs
- murderers
- young Cussettas
- bandits
note: Document interleaved in Washington Irving's Life of George Washington.
omeka_id: 55354
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Jared Irwin
repositories:
- 'Cornell University Libraries: Department of Rare Books'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Secretary McHenry writes to the Governor of Georgia on Creek Indians and assignment of Benjamin Hawkins as agent
year: '1796'
---



War Office 24 October 1796
Sir
I have had the honour to receive your letter of the 22 instant. 
I find that my letter of the 23 of August had not arrived at that time (a copy of which I here enclose). Be assured that it is the sincere wish of the President to give tranquillity to the frontiers, and that every thing tending to disturb it, whether proceeding from acts of our own Citizens or the Indians, will claim his immediate attention. 
With a view to that peace which he is so desirous to preserve, the following arrangements have been entered into. 
A Company of Dragoons have been ordered to join the regular troops on the frontiers of Georgia, and such a disposition to be given to the whole force in that quarter, as may appear best calculated to cover our Citizens from predatory parties, and the Indian land from intrusions. 
An Agent of known influence and capacity, Mr. Benjamin Hawkins has been appointed to reside in the Creek nation who will use his best endeavours, to arrest those thieving expeditions or make the nation feel in such a manner as may induce them to take effectual measures to prevent them. 
And that compensation be made to the Citizens who may suffer in the mean while by those Banditti, should it be refused by the Indians, the Agent for the department of War has been authorized to give notice to all concerned, that he will receive all complaints arising under the Section of the Act to regulate trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes and to preserve peace on the frontiers, with the proper documents to substantiate the loss or Offence, and to transmit the same to the President that measures may be taken to indemnify the injured. 
These
These measures which disburden the United States from an heavy expense and which provide at the same time for the due execution of the laws, the President flatters himself will render it wholly unncessary to keep up any Militia beyond the period mentioned in my letter of the 23 ultimo. Should it however be found in experiment that more troops will be required to secure the frontiers, a further detachment will be ordered for that purpose as soon as the fact shall be ascertained[,] on which subject the President will be always happy to have your opinions. 
Advice has been received previous to your letter of the attempt to murder on the Oconnee, and that the Cussetaw Chiefs were highly incensed at the young men who had committed it, and who it would seem were stimulated to it by the continual harranguing of the Mother of the two young Cussetas killed the last summer by some of our citizens. 
Mr. Hawkins has been written to respecting it, and there is reason to believe that the measures which may be taken will prevent further attempts at retaliation for blood. 
With great respectI have the honor to beSirYour obedient ServantJames McHenry
His ExcellencyThe Governor of Georgia
