---
authors:
- Elias Langham
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:55+00:00'
day: '16'
description: Among other matters, Langham notes that on his way to the western country at Cumberland he found a cache of public stores. They had been lodged there by return wagons from General Morgan's
  camp on the Monongahela and were in bad order. The stores were not ruined so he sent a wagon to retrieve them. Finding his brother, who went to Kentucky on business for him, dead, Langham realizes that
  he had not given himself enough time to complete any business in that country so he will be obliged to return.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1796111680001'
omeka_image_id: 11492
images:
- c8b341204705ca1ec6456826d390e5b3537fc2c0.jpg
- 1059a492e9e03b35527d51fd97b08436d9fd7c49.jpg
- 6cfb8fb71ff1d07940e3e31739ae9f39346cd9e4.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- parcel
- public stores
- wagons
- waggons
- tents
- shoes
- returns
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Shepherd's Town
- Shepherdstown
- Kentucky
- Western Country
- Cumberland
- Monongalia
- Fort Pitt
notable_persons:
- Major Samuel Hodgdon
- Elias Langham
- Major Bedinger
- General Morgan
- Captain McMahon
- Major Craig
- Secretary of War James McHenry
- Captain Gibson
- my brother
omeka_id: 55583
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Shepherd's Town
title: Finding My Brother Dead, Etc.
year: '1796'
---



Shepards Town Nov. 18       [circled]  17 
Major Samuel Hodgdon
Philadelphia 
Major Langham
16th November 1796
Recd 24th
[circled: 357]
[stamped: Received from State Dep't. Nov 24. 1894. R.P.O. 401310.]
Shepherds Town Novr 16th 1796
Sir,
I returned to this place from Kentucky on the 4th Inst and find the public stores in my absence have recd the greatest care and attention, from the well known attention of Major Bedenger to whatever he undertakes.  
On my way to the Western Country, at Cumberland I found a parish of public stores had been lodged there by return waggons from Genl. Morgans Camp on the Monogalia in bad order, I regretted that I had recd no information of the closement of those stores, I wrote to Major Bedenger on the subject who sent for them, but Capt. McMahon with whom they were lodged being absent, the Stores were not recd & I send a waggon expressly for them.  
Major Craig at Fort Pitt informs me that he wants Tents &c, I told him they might be had from this post, he says that Shoes &c being perishable articles ought to be sold, I can keep shoes with a moderate annual expense Tho I can most of the Stores on hand at this place, however should you desire it, such articles will sell tolerable well here - I have passed over the October quarter and do suppose it will not be amiss to hold up my returns till
the next quarter, and then forward all at the end thereof, in the mean time as money is due me and the payments of rents &c must be made before that time, I should be glad to have leave to draw a bill at such sight as the Secy of War may direct for as much money as is due & will be due at the end of the present quarter, which will be between 500 & 1000 Dols. say for 500 I shall be satisfied & the balance if any I can ask for at the end of the quarter.  
Since I came home I have deld. to the order of Capt. Gibson sundry stores which he ordered by authority from you, I completed his order. 
Finding my Brother who went to Kentucky on business for me, dead, before I arrived in that Country, I soon saw I had not allowed myself time to complete my business in that Country, of course shall be oblige to go again, of the necessary time I will advise you and doubt not  but I shall obtain leave for that purpose.  
With sincere respect Your Obt Servt 
E. Langham
Majr Hodgdon
