---
authors:
- Henry Knox
collection_id: 257
collections:
- Oliver Wolcott Jr. Papers.
created: '2018-07-16T14:24:55+00:00'
day: '18'
description: Knox describes British and American settlement of St. Andrews and St. Croix, New Brunswick. The climate is temperate--healthy and favorable to agriculture. Good potential for foreign and domestic
  commerce with fine bays and harbors and a good supply of fish. Commerce between British and Americans is not great. French privateers have captured many vessels. A custom house on one island mans officers
  who work to protect commerce. Discusses boundaries between Maine and Canada. Remembers French settlers during Revolutionary War. Refers to water transportation to Quebec.
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1796111800001'
omeka_image_id: 9662
images:
- 8197d1517a71544739bc8eea963c7e37d721a8ee.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- houses
- fish
- wheat
- grains
- boats
- plaster-of-paris
- lumber
- playing cards
- custom house
- cattle
- sheep
- canoes
- French privateers
- East Indies goods
notable_locations:
- Montpelier, St. Georges River
- St. Andrews, New Brunswick, Canada
- St. Croix, New Brunswick, Canada
- Dudley's Island
- Bay of Passamaquody
- New York
- Philadelphia
- Maine
- Canada
- Penobscot River
- St. Johns
- Quebec
notable_persons:
- Oliver Wolcott, Jr.
- Henry Knox
- British settlers
- French privateers
- L. Devoier
omeka_id: 55589
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Oliver Wolcott, Jr.
repositories:
- Connecticut Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Montpelier, St. Georges River
title: Settlements, Geography, Commerce in Maine, St. Andrews, & St. Croix
year: '1796'
---



Montpelier St Georges River Nov 18th 1796
Sir 
I had the honor to receive your letter of the 22d of july a long period after its date, owing to an absence from home. Since my return, I have been endeavouring to ascertain the several objects of your inquiries, and have to regret that the information I may convey is not to authentic as may be requisite, but imperfect as it is, I submit it with cordiality to your view.
First. The number of people at St Andrew's which is a town at the mouth of River named by the British at the St Croix, mey be about six or seven hundred, settlements extend up the River about nine miles to the head of navigation, & for seven or eight miles, above the head of navigation. If the whole number of settlers, under the British government, on the territory named claimed by the United States, be estimated at 2500, it would not be far from the true numbers.
2dly The Americans are truly settled on the western side of the River called by the British the St Croix except far down the Bay of Passamaquody, at Dudley's Island, where there is an handsome settlement of about 30 good houses, &  and a flourishing fishery, the whole number of inhabitants from the Bay of Passamaquody to the head of the River, may be estimated at about 300. Brit as the
the climate is temperate, & favorable to health & longevity, the soil excellent producing wheat & all other valuable grains Lemp Piax & prep in abundance, the cumber in high estimation & great in quantity, the fishery contignous & inexhaustible, & the situation good for commerce foreign & domestic, the country must under such circumstances soon fill with people, & measures are in train to facilitate that end. The great number of fine bays & harbour's in the District of Maine of an extent of near three hundrer miles, & the immense number of fish of all forts in the vicinity from the whale to the muscle render this District a source of hardy seamen who on all emergencies will afford security to the American commerce, & be a mess of solid dignity to the national character.
3 dly The commerce between the British & Americans great, vessels however on both sides ride in the stream, & receive articles from boats on the opposite sides, the Americains receive plaister of paris, & carry it to New York and Philadephia. The British have received boards, lumber & fish to a considerable extent. But the fresch privateers have is a great degree prevented this for the last two years by capturing most of the vessels belonging to New Brunswick. It is very probable that besides this articles spirits, & some East Indies goods are illicitly obtained by the British  from the americas side. Playing cards & any other articles or which a high duty is imposed by the United States may be easily received from the British.
4th Dudley's island on the island on which Le Devoirier the custom house officer resides appears to be the proper place to restrain illicit commerce with; two small goal to ply incessantly rep & down the bay & rivers.
5thI have not been able to [undecipherable] any information on this lead.
6th The intercourse with the contiguous parts of the United States & the province of New Brunwswick is prohibited and the prohibition is rigidly enforced, it seems to be sentiment of the commercial inhabitants that it should be &, as they are apprehensive that the citizens of the United States would in case of a [uncecipherable] intercourse be their carriers in all things
7th The counting near the Highlands which from the boundaries between the district of Maine & Canada north of Penobscot river is persceptible of high cultivation. This is proved fully by a French settlement high up the river St John's 170 miles from its mouth, where the river runs almost cast. In the time of the American war a number of French families removed from the Bay of Fundy to this place, where they raise cattle & sheep, wheat & other grains in considerable quantities. There is no road from the District of Maine to the said Highlands although there is a post road from the city of St John's on the river of that same, the capital of New Brunswick to the city of Quebec the post goes twice a month. But canoes may pass but out of the water of the Penobscot into those of the
the St John's and into waters of the river of St [undecipherable] Quebec with only about 25 miles of carrying p[undecipherable]is to be understood when the waters are high D[undecipherable] known that any roads are in immediate con[undecipherable]from this district to said higlands.
I am sir with entire respect,
your most obedient
humble son [undecipherable]
the honorable 
the secretary of the [undecipherable]
