---
authors:
- William Simmons
collection_id: 744
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:25:04+00:00'
day: '23'
description: Duplicate letter including abstracts taken from the warrant books at the office of payments for Chisholm and other agents of Indian Department. Simmons questions some of the claims; disallows
  some, and asks that Henley pay strict attention to interests of United States in future settlement of accounts.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1796122321001'
omeka_image_id: 14456
images:
- 6be2e3b110be1e1f96a50a567702c8d334629c6e.jpg
- 528f6b4340f0a6b1312b89dceced7738df278818.jpg
- 9960c26d70869bfa8d999fccf2a64e5fe9fdf86e.jpg
- 780709a945d78375be88abeb8966bafed351c1fb.jpg
- c94ca83bce2964a4420939f7a4bb8c6fa554ae3e.jpg
- 2c51eb763325f4479e5934c260ee2f839b36d238.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- claim
- accounts
- rate of pay
- barracks
- deed for land
- monies
notable_locations:
- Accountants Office
- Tennessee
notable_persons:
- David Henley
- William Simmons
- Lieutenant Hays
- Major Farragut
- Andrew Jackson
- Congress
- Indians
- Captain Chisolm
- Colonel White
note: Enclosed in Henley to McHenry, 12/30/1796.
omeka_id: 55959
page_start: '6'
recipients:
- David Henley
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Accountants Office
title: Duplicate letter advising on proper settlement of Indian Department accounts
year: '1796'
---



Copy's of letters of the
23rd & 30. december 1797
William Simmons
| Copy |
Accountants Office
December 30th 1797
Sir 
The foregoing is a duplicate of my letter
to you of the 23rd Inst. enclosing and extract taken from the
Warrant Book of this office of payments made to Chisholm
and others on account of the Indian Department from the
14th Sept. to that day. I now enclose you an extract to this day
including the first period. _ You will therby observe the
sums Chisholm has received on account of the Indian
Department, which he is to be charged on settlement of his ccount
which are refered to you; his charges being principally
unsupported by any kind of Vouchers and the expenditures 
having taken place principally, as he says among the
Indians where he could obtain none._ it has been thought
most advisable to have the accounts refered to you for
settlement._ you will be better able to Suage of the propriety
of the charges than I can here. Bur it would not be improper
to remark that you are to pay the strickest attention to the
Interest of the United States in the settlement of them, so 
as, on a revision of the accounts, to prevent any objections
to the passing of them to your credit here. __
From the payments to the Interpreters, you will
bserve that they have received monies in advance, which they
are to account for with you. From the abstract of Warrants
Issued, which is enclosed you can see which warrants are to be
accounted for by the person receiving it being held accountable
to which you will pay due attention
As I intend to make an examination of your accounts
as early as possible, I have to request that wou will forward
immediately or as soon as may be to this office an abstract
of your payments from the commencement of your transactions
in that Country to the end of the present year
and an account Current agreeably to the forms inclosed
for your government. _ you will observe that there are columns
ruled for the number of the Warrants and number 
of the accounts on which the payment was made, as
part of the accounts are here you  may susped the number
of them and only include the number of the Warrant. After
the Warrants cease you will continue the numbering the 
accounts from the last number of the Warrant. _ after
you have compleated the abstract of payments, you will
proceed to from an account Current agreeably to the enclosed
form and debit the United States whith the amount of the
abstract of payments, and credit the sums you have received, 
having the ballance remainung in your hands unexpensed.
You will be cautious in entering the payments, so as to
include none, but such as are proper to be settled at this
Office, and the Credits to consist of monies received from this
Office, and such others which would be proper o tbe accounted
for here _ When warrants are issued on account & persons
are held accountable, it would be well to notice it in 
the abstract, so that at one view it may be seen who
is the accountable person.__
Your attention to the forgoing is particularly requested.
A frequent transmission of abstracts and accounts would be
a desirable thing with each transmission of Vouchers, there
should be an abstract & account Current accompanying
them, showing the balance (if any)remaining) unexpended.
Signed
Wiml Simmons
Acct.
