---
authors:
- John Watts
collection_id: 976
collections:
- John Adams Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:25:04+00:00'
day: '22'
description: Notes that peace has faithfully been observed since a 1795 conference, though whites have killed Indians since then; expresses sorrow that these whites have not been punished.  Describes the
  Indian-land boundary established Governor Blount [of TN], says he will abide only by that line. Asks that the boundary be formally run, by a U.S. surveyor of integrity (not a land speculator), and that
  Cherokee envoys be present at that process.  Recommends when the boundary-running should take place.
doc_types:
- Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1796122290301'
omeka_image_id: 9297
images:
- 8e280b9dd6a8f620ac76ca6c214f8e4b238ab22a.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- conference
- peace
- promises
- horses
- stolen
- murder
- treaty
- boundaries
- running the line
notable_locations:
- Tennessee River
- Little River
- Holston
- Bull Run
- Raven's Creek
- Big Buffaloe lick
- mountain
- Kentucky Trace
- ford
- Cumberland River
- General Robertson's house
notable_persons:
- Colonel John Watts
- Cherokee
- President
- George Washington
- Governor Blount
- Indians
- murderer
- Congress
- Colonel Kelly
- General Robertson
- speculator
- Wiley Elder
- Ohadlokee
- Bark
- deputies
note: No tif image.
omeka_id: 55955
page_start: '60'
repositories:
- Massachusetts Historical Society
resource_type: Document
title: Speech by John Watts, Cherokee Chief, Concerning Peace & Boundaries with U.S.
year: '1796'
---



57                                           176
               Conference with the Cherokees---22nd December 1796

    Col. John Watts.

          That he came here on the invitation of the president-that at the
 insistance of Governor Blount and from a desire to keep peace established between
 his Nation and the United States he exerted himself greatly and with much difficulty
 succeeded in bringing about a peace.
    That since it has been made it has been faithfully observed by his Nation-that
 in October 1795 he held a conference with Governor Blount, when mutual promises to
 preserve and strengthen the peace were given and received that soon after in the 
 Winter, the white people notwithstanding killed three of the Indians, but altho'
 this would have justified retaliation, none has taken place, and he is glad his 
 exertions have been able to prevent it.
    That no horses have been stolen since that conference in 1795 and that he has
 uniformly exerted himself to prevent such practices. 
    That he thinks it very hard that the whites should kill Indians, and that they
 should not be punished for so doing. That ever since he was a Boy he remembered to
 have heard it said that whenever such a thing happened the whites should be 
 punished; but, though the Story has been always renewed upon every fresh murder,
 the murderer has in no instance been punished. 
    That this has greatly weakened his belief in such promises. 
    That he has had explained to him the laws of Congress in such cases-that he
 thinks them very good; but as they have to reach so far they get weak, and will be
 of no use to the Indians, unless they can be executed with the same good intention
 with which they have been made; that he hopes his father will attend to this matter.
   That he well remembers the treaty made with Governor Blount and the Boundaries 
 therein established; that he will abide by those lines but no other. That line
 begins on the Ridge that divided the Waters at Tennessee and little River and runs
 thence in a straight line to the falling waters on Holston below Col. Kelly's, and
 thence in a straight line to Bull
58
   Bull Run or Raven's Creek to the Big Buffaloe lick, thence to a mountain, 
   from which one can see a Gap, through which the line is continued along the 
   Kentucky Trace to the ford of Cumberland River, thence down the middle of said
   River, leaving the River within fourteen miles of General Robertson's house,
   thence again into the River.

      With respect to running the line, he wishes with his Nation to have it run, 
   and that no person should be appointed by the United States who is a Speculator,
   or who may be supposed to have any Interest which might prejudice them in favour
   of the Whites or against the Cherokees.

      That he has three Cherokees in his Eye who will attend; that besides the three
   which the United States are to appoint he would be glad that three Whites who he
   will name, might also be present. That the Names of the Cherokees who will attend
   on the part of the Nation are Wiley Elder,Ohadlokee or the Bark and Colonel Watts
   himself.
 
      That the best time to run the line would be just as the Trees begin to put out
   their Buds. If the leaves are fully out, they cannot see so well to run the line.
   That the Nation will be all together in two Moons and expect to hear when the
   running will commence, that their Deputies may attend.

                              ___________________________

                                   Answer,
      To Col. John Watts, and the other Chiefs and Warriors of the Cherokee Nation.

                    Your father the president has heard the Talks of Col. John Watts,
    delivered to his Secretary of War, and is much pleased with it. The greatest
    security for preserving
59                                         177
     preserving peace between Nations is their performing their promises to 
     each other; and when any thing happens that might lead to War, to let their
     wise men meet together to settle it by a friendly conference with each other.

         That the peace which exists between the United States and Cherokees may
     never be disturbed, your father is determined to perform all the promises he
     has made the Nation, and kindly has sent one of his beloved men,
     Mr. Dinsmoor, to live in it; to be always at hand to hear your 
     complaints; to settle differences where he can, and to refer those he cannot
     settle, and which the laws do not reach, to your father for his opinion and 
     advice. By this means he hopes, that peace, good understanding and friendship
     may be always preserved.

          It has never failed to grieve your father when he has heard of any white man
     who has killed a red man, or when red men have killed white.
  
          Congress as Col. Watts has said, have made wise laws to punish murderers,
     and your father will endeavor to have them faithfully executed. But the 
     Cherokees will remember, how oft men are to do bad things when they are in a 
     passion, and see their property in the possession of the thief. It is recommended
     therefore to the Chiefs and Warriors of the Nation to exert themselves and keep
     their bad men from such practices as a sure means of preventing murders.

          It is true, if a red man steals from a white man in his Nation, the value
     of the thing stolen is to be deducted out of the Nation's annuity, in case the
     white man does not attempt private satisfaction or revenge by crossing over the
     line on any of the Indian land; on the other hand, if a white man, a citizen of
     the United States, goes over the indian line and steals horses or other property
     from the red people, the value of what has thus been stolen, will be paid them by
60
    by the United States; provided neither the Sufferer nor Nation shall seek
    private revenge or attempt to obtain satisfaction by force or violence. But
    the Chiefs and Warriors will perceive that it is much better such practices
    should not be encouraged as it is always very troublesome and difficult to 
    settle such accounts, besides the length of time that it requires to obtain 
    the necessary proofs.

         Your father has appointed Benjamin Hawkins, General Andrew Pickens and
    will add a third person to run the boundary line agreeably to Treaty. They 
    have promised to commence the first of April. He will write to them to send
    a Runner into the Nation to inform them where they will begin, that they may
    be joined by those mentioned in Col. Watts's Talks as persons to attend on the
    part of the Nation. He hopes if any doubts or difficulties arise that they will
    be removed by moderation and temper on both sides.___
  
                           Given at the War Office of the United
                           States in the City of Philadelphia, this
                           Twenty seventh day of December, in the
                           year one thousand seven hundred and
                           ninety Six, and in the Twenty First
                           year of the Independence of the said
                           States.----
                                signed,
                                         James McHenry
                                         Sec. of War

                       [Editor's Note: Letter finished off with swirly doodle]
61                                               178
    Blue Jacket a War Chief of the Shawnee Nation to his great
      
        Father of the Fifteen Fires.---

               Father, Open your ears and listen to what I shall say.

           Father, I speak to you in the language of truth, and request your
           particular attention.- I need not tell you, how long I was attached
           to my late British Father over the Waters of the Ocean, nor how often
           I fought his battles on the Borders of our great Lake for my name has
           been well known to your Nation.
 
               Father, My eyes are now opened and my heart has felt glad since I 
           have been in friendship with my American Brethren.

               Father, I have been long deceived by the falsehoods of McKee and
           other British agents who have ever urged myself and my red Brethren to
           keep up the War against the fifteen fires- they have often told me not
           to trust to the Americans, that they only wished to get our lands and 
           then drive us to the immense Waters of the West- that if I would cross
           the lake with them and go to Quebec I should be one of the first men of
           their Nation- but I refused their intreaties.

               Father, Long have I been blinded to my own interest and that of my
           Nation but thank the great Spirit who sent that Bird whose spreading
           wings embraced our nation and diffused peace throughout our Country.

               Father, When I fought for the British I fought with bravery and
           sincerity but since I have found them carrying on a deception among
           us for many years past, I have been determined to break asunder the 
           chain by which we were held and dissolve the ties of friendship by 
           which we were bound- I have seen my error on holding them so long fast
           by the hand and since have found a great difference between their 
           friendship and that of my American brethren.    
                                                                         Father
62

         Father,

             Many years past I received from Sir John Johnston, British
         Superintendant of Indian affairs a testimonial of my fidelity and
         attachment to the British King this flattered me because I was sincere
         in their cause but being so long in the clouds of Darkness and guided
         by a deception which has ever attended their Councils, I have thrown 
         them off and hope to be placed under the left arm of the United States 
         there to be held as a sincere friend and Brother.

         Father,

             This testimonial which I beg you to read- I shall cast away and 
         would be glad to receive from the United States a testimonial of my 
         attachment to them- this I hope you will give me.

         Father,

             It shall be my study as it is my wish to instil into the minds of
         my young men and warriors the necessity of acting faithfully towards the
         United States and preserving inviolate the treaty of peace lately 
         concluded between your great Warrior and my red Brethren.

         Father,

             I take you by the hand and hope you will believe what I have said
         to be truth.

         Father,

             I have accompanied one of the great Chiefs of our Nation to this
         City to see you he is now here and a good friend to the Americans.

         Done at Phila.
         November 1796.




67                                           181



       My Children
                
            I have heard and considered what you have said to me through the
       Secretary of War and I am pleased to see you at the seat of government
       and to receive you as friends.

            You have asked my advice and I will give it to you freely upon such
       matters as appear to me to be essential to your welfare.

            In the treaty which you have entered into with my great Warrior
       General Wayne and which has been ratified by the Senate of the United
       States you have made certain grants and promised certain things that 
       I make no doubt you will comply with. On the other hand the United States
       have promised in the same treaty certain things to you which they mean to 
       perform.

            The United States who love Justice have agreed to pay to you and your
       Children for ever a yearly sum of money in goods for a certain parcel of
       your land. By the same treaty, the Indian Nations, mentioned therein have
       bound themselves not to sell any of their land, except to the United States.
       This is a wise part of the treaty inasmuch as it prevents your people from
       being cheated out of large tracts of Country by designing men who would not
       pay them what the land was worth whilst what they might receive for it could
       be of no use to their posterity. This is not the case when the United States
       buy your land. They are careful that the Children of those who sell it shall
       reap as much advantage from the sale as their fathers did. Thus the treaty
       secures to each Indian nation their land against purchases of Individuals,
       whilst the laws of the United States have in addition to that treaty, 
       provided a punishment for persons who shall attempt to buy it contrary thereto.
68

         Let your Nations therefore pay a due respect and attention to this part
      of the treaty; and they will have nothing to apprehend for their land.---

         It may be proper to say something to you relative to the distribution of
      the goods agreed to be paid to you annually for the land ceded by    
      this treaty. It is right that the quota, apportioned to each nation, should
      be delivered to such persons only as the nation may appoint to receive it. To
      prevent frauds herefore, and insure a fair distribution among yourselves, it
      is recommended, that each nation should fix every year upon the persons whom
      it wishes should receive its quota; and that they should instruct their
      Interpreters to inform the Agent who is to deliver the goods of the names
      of the persons so chosen___

         I shall now give you some advice respecting the conduct of your people, 
      the observance of which I consider of importance to their tranquillity and
      peace. There are among the Indians as among the Whites, individuals who will
      steal their neighbor's property when they found the opportunity in preference
      to acquiring property to themselves by honest means. Bad White men, for
      example, will go into the Indian Country and steal horses and bad Indians,
      in like manner, will go into the settlement of the Whites and steal their
      horses. If the Indian nations wish to deserve the friendship of the United 
      States and to prevent the white settlers on the frontiers from retaliation
      on their property, the Chiefs and Warriors of the respective nations must 
      use their endeavors to punish such offenders and restore to the Whites or
      to some Officer of the United States, the property they may have stolen. 
      As for the government, it will use its utmost endeavors, to restore to every
      Indian any property of his which may have
70

      by their respective Interpreters.
      
              Should you have any thing particular to say before you leave the
      seat of government, you will address it to the Secretary of War, who is 
      instructed by me upon all matters relating to the Indian Nations and who
      will furnish such of you as have acquired the title of Chiefs or Warriors
      with a testimonial of the same import as that delivered up by Blue Jacket,
      as a proof of my esteem and friendship.
  
              I now sincerely wish you a good journey and that you may find your
      Brothers and families well on your return and that the Great Spirit above
      may long preserve your nations in peace with each other and with the United
      States.
    
                           Given at Philadelphia this twenty ninth day
                           of November 1796 and in the twenty first year
                           of the Independence of the United States of America______

                              

                           signed Geo. Washington
