---
authors:
- James McHenry
collection_id: 369
collections:
- Correspondence by author
created: '2018-07-16T14:25:18+00:00'
day: '10'
description: McHenry directs Henley to send spies among the whites who have illegally settled on Indian lands. Also discusses Army affairs in Tennessee
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1797021000001'
omeka_image_id: 11279
images:
- bfa33024e4c90437deb052bf999e274c3fc6e880.jpg
month: '02'
notable_locations:
- War Office
notable_persons:
- D Henley
- James McHenry
omeka_id: 56502
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- David Henley
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Office
title: Spies to the Indian Lands
year: '1797'
---



War Office, February 10th 1797. 
Sir. 
[illegible] your letters of the 2d & 5th January ulto: [illegible] direct knowledge of the number [illegible] of the Settlers, on the Indians land, being necessary to enable the Executive to determine upon the measures proper for the occasion, you will be pleased to take immediate steps to send one or two persons among them, qualified for such a mission, and in whom you can confide, instructed to ascertain with perfect exactness, their number, situation, views, and means for resistence; all which you will transmit as soon as possible.  I shall count upon your sagacity, in selecting fit characters; in keeping from them any intimations which might lead them should they meet to suspect that they were sent on the same errand, and upon the knowledge of the mission being kept from every other person. 
It is likely that more troops may be ordered to Tennessee; but the number cannot at present be ascertained.  
I think the Doctor's bill high; but if it cannot be lessened, with propriety, it must be paid.  
Should the misbehaviour of Mr. Hillis render his removal indispensible, you will consider whether Lieutenant Wright might not supply his place.  This gentleman is well recommended to me, and from appearances, I should presume upon his attention and capacity.  
As it is inconvenient and attended with risk to
to transport money from hence, to pay the troops in Tennessee, you may draw upon me for the pay of Spark's company, from the day they were paid up by Mr Simon, the Paymaster, to the first of January, and for the pay of Rickard's and Wade's for November and December ulto
With great respect, 
I am Sir
Your obt Servt
James McHenry 
Colonel Henley
