---
authors:
- John Adams
collection_id: 528
collections:
- Robert Oliver Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:25:25+00:00'
day: '14'
description: President Adams asks fourteen questions regarding American diplomacy vis a vis the French. On what basis should relations be continued and what concessions should the U.S. make in order to
  prevent French interdiction of American commerce? Should demands be made for reparations? Etc.
doc_types:
- Autograph Document Signed
document_number: '1797031440001'
omeka_image_id: 9230
images:
- 7d1204ac01c0d40c94f31c96c7bf0d20bb842097.jpg
- eebb0c1457cae4972993f2ed537ad3107041bd78.jpg
- 3022c59baee19cf193d0aa86b393a7b87e13cb80.jpg
- 60e9ffc86cbeb9841e8e0e074dd8a3253ceaab8f.jpg
month: '03'
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- John Adams
omeka_id: 56827
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '4'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- Maryland Historical Society
resource_type: Document
title: Fourteen Questions Regarding Relations with the French Government
year: '1797'
---



14 March 1797
John Adams
The President of the United States,  requests to
the Secretary at War, to take into his considera
tion the following Questions and make report
of his opinion in Writing.
1.  Whether the Refusal to receive Mr. Pinckney and the
rude orders to quit Paris, and the Territory of the
Republick, with such circumstances of Indignity, Insult
and Hostility as we have been inform'd of, are
bars to all further measures of Negotiation?  or
in other Words a fresh mission to Paris be too
great an humiliation of the American People,
in their own Sense and that of the World.
2.  If another mission be admissible, can any part, and
what parts or Articles of the Treaty of Amity and
Commerce with Great Britain, be offered to France
or ultimately conceeded to that Power, in case of
necessity, if demanded by her.
3.  What Articles of the Treaty of Alliance, and of the Treaty
of Commerce with France, should be proposed to be
abolished ?
4.  Whether it will be prudent to say any Thing, concerning the
consular convention with that Power, and if it will 
what Alterations in it should be proposed?
5  Whether any new Articles Such as are not contained in
either of our Treaties with France or England shall be
proposed, or can be agreed to, if proposed by the
French Government?
6.  What Documents shall be prepared to send to
France as evidence of Insults and Injuries, committed
against the commerce of the United States by French 
Ships of War, or Privateers, or by French Commissioners
Agents, Officers, or Citizens?
7.  In what terms shall Remonstrances against Spo
liations of Property, capture of Vessels, Imprison
ment of Masters and Mariners, Cruelties, Insults
and Abuses of every kind, to out Citizens be made?
8. In what terms shall restitution, Reparation, Com
pensation and Satisfaction be demanded for
Such Insults and Injuries?
9.  Shall demand be made of Payment to our
Citizens for Property purchased by the French
Government in Europe, or in the East and West Indies.
10  Shall demand be made of the French Government
of Payment for Vessels and Cargoes, captured and 
Seized, whether by Ships of War, or private ships?
11  Shall any Commission of Inquiry and Examination 
like that with England be agreed to ?
12.  What Articles in the British Treaty can be offered
to France, without compensation, and with com=
pensation, and what compensation shall be demand-
ed?
13.  Shall a Project of a new Treaty abolishing the
old Treaties and Consular Convention be proposed
to France?
14.  Shall such a Project, with a Project of Instructions
to the Minister, be prepared and laid before
the Senate for their Advice and consent, before
they be sent to Europe?
John Adams
Philadelphia 14 March 1797
