---
authors:
- George Washington
collection_id: 510
collections:
- Frederick Chase Collection
created: '2018-07-16T14:25:29+00:00'
day: '03'
description: Request simple report from McHenry's office.  Conduct of French.  Notes on construction of his house.  Requests forwarding of letter to Messr. Read and Ford.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1797040340001'
omeka_image_id: 9738
images:
- 29e11aa98a118f77a5c24644568bb30994b28877.jpg
- cab5ed4f56fe767c7f74fa1b5d38bbb6469d7ba9.jpg
- 8bf0fc870123b2daa13802c4b99ecbaf8bf3dfef.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- roads
notable_locations:
- Mount Vernon
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- George Washington
- Messrs.
- Ford
- Read
- General Lee
- carpenters
- masons
- French
- military
note: Private
omeka_id: 57047
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '3'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- Dartmouth College Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Mount Vernon
title: French policy and Construction at Mount Vernon
year: '1797'
---



(undecipherable) 
Mount Vernon [undecipherable] 1797 

Dear Sir, 
Your letter of the 24th. [undecipherable] has been duly received, and I thank you for the information given in it: -- Let me pray you to have the [undecipherable] to communicate to me occasionally, such matters as are interesting, and [undecipherable] contrary to the values of your office at duty to disclose._ We get so many detail in the Gazettes, and of such different con[undecipherable]ions that it is impossible to know whatere [undecipherable] to any of them. ---
The [undecipherable] of the French governments is so much beyond calculations, and so [undecipherable] upon any principle of justice or even to that sort of policy which is familiar to plain understand [undecipherable], that I shall not now puzzle my brains on attempt [undecipherable] to develop their motives to it. __
We get home without accident, and found the Roads drier, and better than I was [undecipherable] them at that Season of the year. __ The attentions we met with on our first undecipherable] were very flattening [undecipherable] to some [undecipherable] have minds are differently formed 
[undecipherable]
from mine would have been haplly[?] relished; but favoreded in every instance where I had any previous knowledge go the intention, & could by earnest entreaties prevail a[undecipherable] parade, or escorts.-- Mrs.. Washington {undecipherable] a violent cold in Philadelphia, [undecipherable] upon her [undecipherable]h, but not as bad as it did.--
I find myself in the situation many of  a young beginner; for although I have not houses to build (except one, which I must erect for the accommodation & security of my Military; [undecipherable] & private Papers which are voluminous and may be interesting) yet I h[undecipherable] , or scarcely any [undecipherable] about me that does not require considerable repairs.__ In a [undecipherable], I am already surroundad by [undecipherable], Masons, Painters, &ec[?]&. and such is my anxiety to get out of their Lands, that I have scarcely a room to put a friend into; or to set in myself, without the Music if hammers, or the odoriferous smell of paint.__ 
I will make no apology for putting the enclosed under cavier to you. __. If General Lee should have left Philadelphia, let me request the favor of you to open the letter to [undecipherable] and [undecipherable] the [undecipherable] that could [undecipherable]
delivered to Majsr. Reed & Ford, by persons who you can inform me with certainty, has done so; that I may know to what cause to [unkown word] (should it happen) any delay in their answer; and add, if you please, who then ^there be any cause to suspect a failure of there Gentlemen. __
You will readily perceive that what is said of the [undecipherable], and what I write to Genl. Lee is of a private nature, and [undecipherable] to be mentioned unless the reportres [undecipherable] Reed & Ford are facts of notoriely.

Mrs. Washington & Miss Custus[?] [undecipherable] that [undecipherable] for your kind [undecipherable] of them, and join me in best regards for MrsMcHenry & yourself with 
Dear Sir
Your sincere friend and Affectionate
G:oWashington 

James McHenry Espr
