---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:25:44+00:00'
day: '19'
description: Recounted the construction of buildings at Fort Pitt.  Buildings were made of logs and are decayed, in addition they were built on private land which was recently sold to private citizens.  Craig
  awaiting instructions on disposal of building materials.  Requests assistance from Attorney General in processing request.  Noted similar situation at Fort Randolf in Wheeling.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1797051954001'
omeka_image_id: 21556
images:
- cb1a2418b213e41c6d8e7934fcdf5f577b24e0d0.jpg
- 1ca96a86edd0d50ae19a4b1650748994fd45d224.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- buildings
- inventory
- logs
- materials
- stone
- ordnance
- quartermaster stores
- flags
- bunting
- gunners quadrants
- joiners tools
- carpenters tools
- tools
- window glass
- glass
- stationery
- stationary
- articles
- supplies
- private property
- lots
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Pittsburgh
- Fort Pitt
- fortress
- Great Britain
- magazine
- Wheeling
- Fort Randolf
- Fort Randolph
- Fort Franklin
- Le Boeuf
- Presque Isle
- Presque'isle
- upper posts
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- Isaac Craig
- Great Britain
- British
- General Henry Knox
- Congress
- General Wilkinson
- garrison
- Ebenezer Zane
- Colonel George Stricker
- Captain Heath
- Attorney General
- Commander in Chief
note: Cited in Craig to McHenry, 06/16/1797.
omeka_id: 57627
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Value of Buildings and Forwarded Supplies
year: '1797'
---



110 
Pittsburg 19 May 1797
Sir
During the war with Great Britain several buildings were erected within the old Fortress known by the name of Fort Pitt at the expence of the United States. One of these buildings being a magazine built of stone is still of considerable value, the others being constructed of logs are much decayed and now of no importance. the ground on which the buildings stand is private property and lately laid out in lots and sold to people who intend to improve them.  Some of these people claim the public buildings as their property being on their ground.  I have still considered these Buildings or rather the Materials, the property of the United States in consequence of a former law of Congress and therefore I have hitherto held possession of them expecting Instructions respecting the disposal of them having during the administration of Gen. Henry Knox as Secretary of War applyed to him for that purpose.  I have lately had a valuation made of the magazine by competent Judges, who report that the materials are worth 190 dollars and as it is necessary that an immediate determination take place with respect to that property I have to beg leave to suggest that is may be proper to obtain the opinion in this case of the Attorney General, especially as a case somewhat similar now occurs with respect to the public Buildings erected at Wheeling called Fort Randolph from which General Wilkinson by a late order has directed it to be [evacuated?] as a useless post, it is therefore, now without a Garrison [illegible] abandoned as I have given the buildings a charge
111
to Colo George Stricker who is to take care of them until instructions are obtained for disposal of them.  
Fort Randolph is erected on lands the property of Ebenezer Zane esq. of Wheeling, who at the time the Secretary of War directed a post to be established at that place refused to sell the ground to the U. S. but consented that it might be occupied as a military post as long as the U. S. might have occasion for it.  
I have this moment received a letter from the Commander in Chief of which the enclosed is a copy.  The Inventory alluded to in that letter enumerates the greater part of the ordnance and quarter master stores on hand at this place also a part of the articles at Franklin, Le Boeuf and Presque'isle together with several articles that cannot be procured at this place, amongst which are Bunting for two Fort Flags, two gunners quadrants two sets of joiners and Carpenter Tools, two Boxes Window Glass, and an assortment of stationary.  The articles now on hand I expect to send forward in charge of Captain Heath and those to be brought from the upper posts shall go forward as soon as possible.  
I am Sir, Your Obedt Serv. I.C. 
James McHenry
Sec'y of War
Philadelphia
