---
authors:
- James McHenry
collection_id: 974
collections:
- James McHenry Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:25:44+00:00'
day: '21'
description: Memorandum on Franco-American relations; McHenry concludes that France is in a difficult spot and is unlikely to have the ability to garner a fleet for war against the United States.
doc_types:
- Autograph Draft Document
document_number: '1797052100101'
omeka_image_id: 19309
images:
- 50111ca07ee01b2acc7794cdb1df39df018ca499.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- Supplies
- vessels
- provisions
- fleet
notable_locations:
- France
- Spain
- Netherlands
- Holland
- Florida
- West Indies
- West India
- islands
- Britain
- England
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- William Loughton Smith
- John Adams
- merchants
- allies
- marine
- navy
omeka_id: 57644
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- William Loughton Smith
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
title: Memorandum regarding Franco-American relations
year: '1797'
---



May 21st 1797
Given to Wm. Smith.
In the debate upon the answer to the Presidents Speech, or in the course of discussing the ^defensive^ measures which it recommends, it may become a question, whether ^be said that^ France has anything ^nothing^ to fear from the U.S.
France it may be shown, has to fear 1st. The deprivation of those supplies of various kinds which she has heretofore received by American vessels, and the [medicines?] of Amer. merchants and which are essential to the prosecution of her continental war.  2d. The clamours of her allies, (Spain & the United Netherlands) from the injuries they must experience should she oblige them to adopt similar measures to these she herself is pursuing.  3d. The dangerous ^critical^ situation to which she will in particular reduce Spain ^in particular^, should she drag her into the war, considering that the fate, at least of [illegible] the Floridas, with ^and^ Louisiana depends upon Spains ^her^ retaining the friendship of the U. S. 4th. The certain loss of her West India Islands from a want of our provisions and other necessary supplies, which must inevitably throw them into the hands of Great Britain.  
What on the other hand has the U. S. to fear from France?  It is not probable that in the present situation of her ^the French^ Marine, that there can be spared from it a detachment adequate to make any impression on the U. S. should the measures of Defence ^contended for^ be adopted, we well know that she cannot furnish a fleet to protect her West India Islands, and shall we suppose her able to send a fleet  to attack the U.S.] ^that could [naturally?] destroy the United States?  But admitting that she may make such an attempt, would not the armament be thought by England to be destined for the West Indies ^at least must make England get at least upon that supposition; and would it not therefore be watched, intercepted or dispersed without much or any agency whatever on the part of the U.S. 
Such being the position of the U. S. relation to Franceand to all every thing pacific is to be hoped from negotiation should she see that our preperations are calculated to meet war. 
[stamp] Photocopied from original in William L. Clements Library, University of Michigan.  Permission of Library Director required for reproduction, use,, or publication.  Deposit of this copy in other institutions is strictly prohibited. [/stamp]
