---
authors:
- Timothy Pickering
collection_id: 367
collections:
- Clairborne (JFH) Collection
created: '2018-07-16T14:25:51+00:00'
day: '10'
description: Pickering writes McHenry about the situation concerning the boundary line being surveyed between the U.S. and Spanish Florida.  Mentions Spanish governor's dissatisfaction with the conduct
  of the U.S. boundary commissioner, Mr. Ellicot.  Concerns preparations for withdrawal by Spanish troops, and erection of U.S. works
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1797061040001'
omeka_image_id: 10183
images:
- d5e777d1c9776606ccdbe1326a456639508a5192.jpg
- 31d98c0b1f578089beccf9f3fa510c4fff971dc8.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- boundary line
notable_locations:
- Department of State
- Florida
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- Timothy Pickering
- Mr. Ellicot
- Spanish Governor
omeka_id: 57892
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '2'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- 'Mississippi Department of Archives and History: Archives and Library Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Department of State
title: Letter Concerning U.S.-Spanish Interactions During Surveying of Boundary with Spanish Florida
year: '1797'
---



[void]
Letter of the 10th June
from the Secretary of 
War State

__      __


Ellicotts conduct
complained of &
Maj: Guion sent
to Natchez in
consequence
Maj. Guin sent in 
compliance with
this letter.
Department of State
June 10. 1797
Sir:
The Chevalier de Yrujo has just parted from me. He brought two letters
in the Spanish language from the Baron de Carondelet which he said he
would literally translate to me[parentheses mark inserted between sentences to designate a period and a mark to capitalize T in "these"]These letters mentioned his  dissatisfaction with Mr. Ellicott the commissioner for running the boundary line between the United States and Florida on account of his conduct at the Natchez
as communicated to the Baron by Governor Gayoso. The Chevalier has promised me copies of the Barons letters--After some conversation on this subect the Chevalier expressed his wishes (and I take it the wishes of the Baron de [inserted]Carondelet that Mr. Ellicot as a skillful man in his profession, might be confined to his appointment of running the boundary line [could also be lines but looks like the "s" was blacked out] and that a discreet cool and prudent officer might be appointed to  command the American troops who should take post at the Natchez and whose arrival there was expected. The Barons two letters were dated, one about the 25 of March the other the 20 of April [no period] I asked the Chevalier where he supposed the American Troops would take post if the Spanish Troops did not withdraw from the fort. He answered that the settlement was large and there were plenty of houses in which they could find Quarters. One conclusion results that the Spaniards have yet entertained no idea of using force to prevent our troops making an establishment at the Natchez [no period]
The Baron de Carondelet has written to the Prince of Peace for instructions about the manner of evacuating the posts--whether to leave the works standing or to demolish them. 
I am Sir etc
Tim J. Pickering
The Secretary of War
[Copy]
