---
authors:
- George Washington
collection_id: 510
collections:
- Frederick Chase Collection
created: '2018-07-16T14:25:58+00:00'
day: '07'
description: '"Nefarious" conduct of late governor and senator discussed.  Subject of his investigation involved private gain from public funds at "the expense of innocent lives".  Washington will wait
  for verdict from Congress on matter.'
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1797070740001'
omeka_image_id: 9739
images:
- 1da3aaa9ba0e97f44198ab6227f13ca6e7169900.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- nefarious conduct
- emolument
- profit
- treason of Governor Blount
- intercepted letter
- misconduct
- scandal
notable_locations:
- Mount Vernon
- British
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- George Washington
- governor
- senator
- Congress
- Secretary of State Timothy Pickering
- Mr. James Byers
- Indians
- frontier inhabitants
- William Blount
- James Carey
- Creeks
- Cherokees
omeka_id: 58217
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- Dartmouth College Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Mount Vernon
title: Intercepted Letter and Misconduct
year: '1797'
---



Mount Vernon
7 July 1797
Geo. Washington
Mount Vernon 7th. July 1797
Dear Sir, 
By the last Post I was fa:
voured with your letter of the 3rd instant
and thank you for its enclosure, al:
though, on the same day, I had, myself, transmit a copy thereof to the Secretary 
of State.
I had doubted a while, whether 
to forward it to your Office or that of 
State, but finally resolved to send it to 
the latter, as it seemed more properly
I thought, to belong to that Department.
If the letter intercepted by Mr.
Byers is a serious one, and the Gentle:
man's handwriting is not easily mis:
taken, or counterfeited. What excuse
can a late Governor or present Senator
of the U.S., or his friends for him, offer 
for such nefarious conduct? The 
defense must be curious, and with, I
have no doubt, be conducted with as
much effrontery as art. I hope, not:
withstanding, if the fact is proved, that the author will receive the punishment
ment which the Constitution and Laws of 
this Country can inflict, and thereafter 
be held in detestation by all goodmen. 
To seek private emolument at 
the expence of Public Peace_ perhaps at the expence of Public Peace _ perhaps at the expence of many innocent lives:
_ and to aim a [undecipherable] at the reputation 
of a virtuous character hazarding his 
health-probably life to promote [undecipherable]
lity between the Indians and our fron:
tier Inhabitants; and by destroying 
his influence, or well earned good name 
among the [undecipherable], to render him inca:
pable of serving his Country because 
he may be a stumbling block in the 
way of a plan which he has in con:
templation, is a crime of so deep a 
dye [undecipherable] no [undecipherable] convey erade:
quate idea of to my mind. A poor wretch steal:
ing the work of a [undecipherable], possibly to buy 
bread, would be hung, or confined to hard 
labouer; and here, a plan (at which I 
can only guess) as on poor to defraud 
the public of the rights; deprive Citizens 
perhaps (is it consequencial) of their 
lives, to [undecipherable] character._and 
ultimately, war, [undecipherable] concomi
tants, [undecipherable] with, more than probably, 
meet with advocates.
But as you inform me that 
the matter would be laid before Congress
as on Monday last, I shall wait (with 
some degree of impatience I confess)
to learn the result.
Always, I remain
Your affectione frd.
[signature] G. Washington
James McHenry Esq.
