---
authors:
- Isaac Craig
collection_id: 993
collections:
- James Robertson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:25:58+00:00'
day: '07'
description: Vouchers of provisions issued enclosed along with contractor's receipts.  Mentioned safety of goods transported on Allegheny on a boat that sank.  Transmitted list of provisions so Craig could
  replace lost or damaged articles.  Package from Pickering addressed to Rivardi received.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1797070789001'
omeka_image_id: 21765
images:
- 036332ae0d87edce9f6ceb62516427458a2113b5.jpg
- 0e43830c3c7b7dc0b1933c69b60d8be3310f72b6.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- packet
- voucher
- vouchers of issues
- provisions
- return
- receipts
- commissary stores
- invoice
- groceries
- dry goods
- boat
- box
- canvas
- damaged goods
- express
- safe conveyance
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Pittsburgh
- Fort Franklin
- Le Boeuf
- Allegheny River
- post
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Isaac Craig
- Secretary of War
- contractor
- George Stevenson
- merchants
- Abner Parker
- Jesse Barker
- Jesse Parker
- Colonel Pickering
- Major Rivardi
note: Cited in Hodgdon to Craig, 07/14/1797.
omeka_id: 58223
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- 'Tennessee State Library and Archives: Archives and Manuscripts Section'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pittsburgh
title: Replacement of Lost Goods
year: '1797'
---



Pittsburg 7th July 1797
Sir
Your letters of the 29th. & 30th. ult. with the enclosures & 4 Newspapers are received.
I have this day transmitted three packets addressed to you under cover to the Secretary of War.  No 1. you will find to contain Vouchers of issues of Provisions at this post in January February & March 1797  No. 2. contains Vouchers of ditto at same post for April & May 1797 and No. 3. you will find to contain a return of Provisions for those months at Pittsburg, together with the Contractors Receipts
for the Commissary Stores on hand at Pittsburg, Franklin, Le Boeuf, on the first day of June 1797.  And you will also find enclosed an Invoice of Sundry articles Shiped for Franklin & Le Boeuf on the 27th ult. but which I am apprehensive will be much injured & I am afraid a part lost by the boats sinking about 60 miles advanced up the Alleghany  The Boat had on board in addition to the U. S. property a large quantity of Groceries and dry Goods the property of Merchants of this place a considerable part of which is lost and by the last account from the boat it appears that Box No. 3. containing Canvas was not then found--I have dispatched an express for further information and with instructions to have all the packages that may have been found opened dried and repacked  I give you this early information in order that you who are a competent Judge of the injury and loss to be expected from that accident, may replace the lost or useless articles if Necessary
I have had occasion to draw on you in favor of George Stevenson for 800 dollars, viz on the 4th instant for 400 & on this day for 400 dollars both at 8 days sight and I have also this day drawn in favor of Abner and Jesse Barker for 500 dollars at 8 days sight which be pleased to pay and charge as usual
Be pleased to present My respects to Colo Pickering and tell him that I have received his Note accompanied by a packet addressed to Major Rivardi and which shall be sent forward immediately by a safe conveyance  I am, Sir,
Your Ob. Hb. Sr
I. C.
Samuel Hodgdon Esquire
Philadelphia
