---
author_note: William Simmons
authors:
- William Simmons
collection_id: 769
collections:
- Miscellaneous Letters Sent by the Accountant of the War Department and the Second Auditor, Apr 14, 1795-May 5, 1886. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:26:32+00:00'
day: '17'
description: Simmons urgently requests account details regarding monies advanced to MacDonald by Presley Neville for pay of militia to suppress an insurrection in Pennsylvania.  Money was advanced to MacDonald
  by warrants, MacDonald then paid Col. Swearingen's Regiment from Virginia.  Simmons gave specific details on the appropriate manner to file account.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1797101721455'
omeka_image_id: 22662
images:
- d2a65036f2a329861f14d88aef236669785e721f.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- monies
- insurrection in counties of western Pennsylvania
- pay
- advance
- warrants
- account
- resolution of congress
- expedition
- expenditures
- abstract
notable_locations:
- Winchester Virginia
- Accountant's Office
- Pennsylvania
notable_persons:
- Angus McDonald
- William Simmons
- Paymaster General
- Colonel Swearingen
- Virginia Militia
- Congress
- Treasury Department
- Treasurer of United States
omeka_id: 59508
page_start: '340'
recipient_note: Angus McDonald
recipients:
- Angus McDonald
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Accountant's Office
title: Request for Account Information or Refund to Treasurer of United States
year: '1797'
---



Accountants Office
October 17th 1797
MSuperscript textr. Angus McDonald
late Paymaster to Colo Sweaingen's Regt
Virginia Militia - Winchester.
Sir
In an abstract of monies advanced by Pressley Neville Paymaster General to the militia called out to suppress an insurrection in the western counties of Pennsylvania in the year 1794 you stand charged with monies paid to you by him pursuant to warrants in your favor for the pay of Colo Swearingen's Regt of Virginia Militia employed in said expedition and as no vouchers have hitherto been transmitted to this Office to exonerate you from those advances I have to request your immediate attention in rendering such as you possess or can obtain in a short time, properly stated - and in case of deficiency to refund the balance unaccounted for in your hands to the Treasurer of the United States.
I am under the necessity to be the more urgent in requesting your attention to this object in consequence of a resolution of Congress of the 3Superscript textd March last, directing me
to furnish an abstract by the first week in January next of the names of the receivers of all public monies unaccounted for.
In rendering your accounts you will be particular in stating an account current charging the monies received and crediting the expenditures made agreeably to the Pay and accounts you were furnished with, also filing the receipts with the accounts with corresponding numbers which are to accompany the account current. A List of the sums remaining unpaid accounting for any balance remaining in your hands unappropriated is also to be furnished.
Your particular attention is required to these several objects as Colo Neville the Pay Master General has been furnished with directions to attend to the final settlement of all the accounts relative to that expedition and is to attend for that purpose on the 15th Novr next before which time I flatter myself your accounts & vouchers will all be regularly furnished and examined in this Office and the amt passed to its proper account on the aforementioned abstract be furnished to Congress.
I am &c.
Wm Simmons Acct.
