---
authors:
- Timothy Pickering
collection_id: 976
collections:
- John Adams Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:26:37+00:00'
day: '28'
description: Comments on the likelihood of fever dying down in Philadelphia, allowing Congress to meet there.  Informs Adams of meetings between a U.S. messenger and Talleyrand of France; comments on continuing
  friction between the U.S. and France.  Mentions correspondence which covers the treatment of certain American ships in French ports.  Mentions John Quincy Adams' inquiry to the Prussian minister of foreign
  affairs concerning the renewal of a commercial treaty between the U.S. and Prussia; quotes the reply of the Prussian minister, in French.  Refers also to negotiations and treaties with England and Russia.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1797102800001'
omeka_image_id: 9695
images:
- c5d4e3d7ce5fbc01274f0a4cb048fc72620abb27.jpg
- 848081a4fd03cc08d60b44549cfc00b6cd5192a3.jpg
- ef71070f6a19c2428f0bf51812e139e4d38c7610.jpg
- 9ebd18c5b5047eeadd86d4e780c22587318a5dca.jpg
- 9ae70f6319eb7b09778039c66b7ce97424f8a239.jpg
- 55594a7c8a0807f69f37785ba7d2f1f9d25a6561.jpg
- 3f5ae676e33c3f7b1e29d74b5806f6996d6366b6.jpg
- 17495371f8d642ccf973082d89dc3fea50755b1a.jpg
- eac7d7076034e9bbf9ef45c2b13024322b37cc12.jpg
- 40668b4594e4e828496280026c8ee52ccee69e4f.jpg
- 96f2fe4165cf9c21d22093d4ed6fe305a4280d06.jpg
- 89981a81733bd244cbe8ca80398f42f466fd313e.jpg
- 010633847954d183660393094c0ec839bda53f0e.jpg
- 67621b1379ed4f149a7abc68f92658dda28dccd1.jpg
- eb16010f7b5c8be2b6a862934eed53218e42df1d.jpg
- 1e8b2cb50fefc005a96f6b40b1e664f6e20c74ab.jpg
- 2cbe4adf65abefbb739cfcac405e23ddc718d243.jpg
- b3bffb7b62072cdcc2090a71f25a1d3ca95ed87d.jpg
- 30f9e0bbd096af7898ddd98fee324120df6df498.jpg
- d7cb1b789f93b9455d7b2a67d8b5a9409df2f2b0.jpg
- f38510b87d68d98102a18a0eaa33fcd05dedbfe0.jpg
- a42287f9370a2f9666c68f9429d66e7e9bb33e88.jpg
- 6e00219125c125deb20ab51af18fb7f6cff61d34.jpg
- 8c1052f4f084cb56396605e892a790b057c5953c.jpg
- 005faf41feb4a13a9a1b08c67b7144c5a3da705b.jpg
- ea6a0266d0bd7bc3b50d292e0a42fe46001dd794.jpg
- ce6c3e2de7319264d372e1f869c35fed07813412.jpg
- 49f810a22ca2af5ac54dddce67389a092f7e4aae.jpg
- 7c6c31c1924b87e6280f72d9c613346c1dc15d24.jpg
- c15108ab6c63db9c65b20d19f7691ad02ba2750e.jpg
- f2c1b61f6184d276feab3538d6ac47e3d4d9c226.jpg
- c07f16db0b9a43aec523dc4a0951625ab82bc1c3.jpg
- 9cf9a0fc308b1ce118b86324140422b4186d7ca7.jpg
- 456ecbb148d8e7881bf3adf657e7a888272bd072.jpg
- 64ad5c0c49c32e9f40fa0427fd538d3cd9fa4464.jpg
- 988af3b4f75696e590ed170233b56987d121ed4c.jpg
- f3b2356764f78d5b890cfeee460da53b5ee49b80.jpg
- b42e50669b68dcf9c930e7048abdfde9d93ca63e.jpg
- 8284dcb422410f5c74d69c93cd83911db8c38acb.jpg
- da920d1d70a357957a01454ea2c6200714aa78af.jpg
- d6ce80fbdccc13ccad205ad23a311118587930b6.jpg
- 5f522333a3ee930d2f75841a26ef38338dcf27b5.jpg
- 53f2368987a47a38af369fb9c5889641e94325ce.jpg
- febc18ad1bb29d6563acaca2dc3b1e616d878810.jpg
- 4cb6d32378f9d58216eb65cd548a75edc2009fcc.jpg
- b1a0e52f84bbdcb9688a1161cf8aef2196f347e5.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- ships
- fever
- treaty
notable_locations:
- Trenton
- Philadelphia
- France
- Prussia
- England
notable_persons:
- Timothy Pickering
- John Adams
- Congress
- Talleyrand
- Prussian minister
note: "Enclosed in Pinckney to Adams, 10/22/1797.\r\n\r\nActual document images 33-36."
omeka_id: 59695
page_start: '33'
recipients:
- John Adams
repositories:
- Massachusetts Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Trenton
title: Regarding Fever in Philadelphia, and Foreign Affairs with France, Prussia, England, & Russia
year: '1797'
---



[along the left margin:]
Col. Ouherny Oct. 28th and 31st 1797
Trenton Oct, 28. 1797
Sir,
This morning I was honoured with your letter of the
26th.
My opinion is that by the second Monday in
November the members of Congress may assemble in Philadelphia
with proper [undecipherable] faster which was
to be expected with [undecipherable]. The [undecipherable] of contagion in
the [undecipherable]days to come. The [undecipherable] of the College & Schools
[undecipherable] reasonable
[undecipherable] to enter on the
[undecipherable] from the purpose
[undecipherable]
Congress and all the  [undecipherable] places
[undecipherable] within the
[undecipherable]
[undecipherable] that Mr. 
[undecipherable] that his office will 
be [undecipherable]from this day.
[undecipherable]letter [undecipherable] will reform on Monday
[undecipherable]
Cannot
Cannot so contrary to the wishes and reports of those
men among us thow manifest a malignant pleasure
at every insult offered to their countra or its deserving
citizens by the French. _ As connected with the reception
of your son, I have the pleasure to recite, from
General Bruckney's letter of July 30th, received last ebening,
that Major Mountflorence has waited upon Mr. Talleyard,
the new minister for foreign aggairs, and was very cordially
received. Mr. Talleyrand enquired politely after General 
Pinckney, and added "he hoped forn to habe the pleaseure
of seeing him in Paris."
Mr. Talleyard has dismissed all the officers in his department
except M. Girandel, the Secretary general, whose
politness to General Pinckney you will recollect was
[undecipherable] in his letter fro Paris. Mr. Otto & Mr. LaForess, 
whom you [undecipherable] have [undecipherable] both at present employed
in that department. Genl. Pickney [undecipherable] that M. Laforess
several times called on him in Paris, & always expressed
the most friendly sentiments towards the U.S. and shared
and ernest desire that harmony might be restored between
the two nations.
I mentioned in my last, that the Consuls in the
differet parts of France had requested to be furnished with
the translated copies of my printed letter to General
Pinckney
Pickney. The General, in this last letter, mentiones the acquital
of one American vessel and her cargo, at L'Orient, & 
of one other vessel, whose cargo was condanned; and then add_
"Mr. Nail, Consular Agent at that port, writes that your printed
letter to me, and Mr. Pastorel's speech, have had a decided
influence on the mind of the judges."
The latest letter from Mr. King is dated the 21st of August. He 
can give no information of the negotiations at Lisle: but the last
accounts from the Continent diminish the probability of a recommencement
of war between Austria and France, tho' the definitive
treaty between them is not ye concluded."
Mr. J.Q. Adams was still at London. He and Mr. Kind conducted
that it would be left, prior to his departure for Berlin,
to ascertai whether there would be any embarrassment
in the proposal to review the commercial treaty with 
Prussia. This was done thro' the Prussian minister, Mr.
Balan, who has received an answer from the Prussian
minister of foreign affairs in these words - "quant á Mr.
nouvellerai avec plaisir, avec les Etats Unis de l'Amerique,
le traité de commerce conclu entre nous;
et que la mission de Mr. Adams que le President du
Congrés se propose d'envoyer pour cet effet a Berlin
ne pourra que on être tres agreable."
In a late letter Mr Kind recites his conferences with 
the Lord Chancellor on the Subject of the Maryland [undecipherable]
Stock detained by the Government: and the probability is
that is will soon be restored. A Mr. Russell who had a claim
upon it on account of an estate confiscated by Maryland
is dead, and his family received, among the long life, full
compensation from the Crown. Judge Chan seemed to have
been the agent of Maryland in this business; and as his
request I have sent him the details, fro the infromation 
of their executive.
G. Britain & Prussia concluded a treaty of commerce and
navigation at Petersburg, on the 21st last February. I eccd.
it with Mr. Kings last letter yesterday evening. I have had
time but to cast a hasty eye over it. The principle of the
armed [undecipherable] their [undecipherable] made for good, is not mentioned
but this [undecipherable] and [undecipherable] Stores are not contraband.
The [undecipherable] article stipulated , that the subject of the tow powers shd.
pay no higher taxation of imprtations and exportation than
the subjects by other nations. At the 11th of May the same nations
that to the words "other natios, European nations 
alone are to be understood." This explanation can
have reference only to the UStates whose commerce
consequently, may be exempted from any part of the
duties imposed on that of Russia.
I had the honor to be most respectfully
Yir, your obt. Servt. Timothy Pickening
