---
authors:
- Doctor Charles Brown
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:26:42+00:00'
day: '11'
description: Dr. Brown reports that the elegant fox skin intended for Mrs. Hodgdon has been lost to the depredation of the moths. The enclosed account would have been paid long ago were it not for the death
  of General Wayne. Brown was promised ten dollars extra per month for tending to the Indians and $150 extra during the Treaty of Greenville but extraordinary fatigue and the heat of the weather almost
  finished him off.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1797111180001'
omeka_image_id: 5634
images:
- 21018ce1338e73e49802f72e73ff747366c4adb9.jpg
- 83b11347c274dffd761e66dff861934ccf7697e4.jpg
- 0566b7bd4b29d9341d430497c49291e9f60d4075.jpg
- 6db1842d9b33d2ca70ee9c72eac573e593eb183c.jpg
month: '11'
notable_items:
- yellow fever
- elegant fox skin
- moth
- account
- pay
- treaty
notable_locations:
- Detroit
- Philadelphia
- Greenville
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Doctor Charles Brown
- Mrs. Hodgdon
- fur merchant
- General Anthony Wayne
- Indians
- General James Wilkinson
omeka_id: 59953
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Detroit
title: Extra Pay for the Treaty of Greenville, Etc.
year: '1797'
---



Doctor Charles Brown
November 11th--1797
Recd 9th March 98
165
Received
from
State Dep't.
Nov. 24. 1894.
R.P.O.401810
Received  from State Dep't. Nov. 24. 1894. 
R.P.O.401810
D'Etroit Novr. 11th. 1797
Dr. Sir
I am sorrow that the yellow fever has again given cause of alarm to the cityzens of Philada.  I hope it is not so seriou as report makes it--
I have bad newes for Mrs Hodgdon I hope it will not give her so much uneasynys as it has me, the elegant fox skines provided fer her are unfortunately lost thro the depredation of the moth before I per- -served it, the fur Merchants say they have suffered severely this season on that account but, I hope Mis Hodgdon will not think this accadent happned thro my neglect, while I beg leav to assure her that I have engaged more & shall
take care that the sharpest teethed moth shall not be able to injure them 
Part of the inclosed account would have been paid long ago had it not been for the death of Genl. Wayne at whose request I first undertook the duty of attending the Indians under promis of ten dollers pr. month extra pay fer that servece and 150 dollers for extra attendanes during the treaty at Green Ville when the extreordonary fatigue and heat of the weather nearely finished me. Genrl. Wilkinson recemends only five dollars pr. month & I have made out my account accordingly although he acknowledges that my servecis intitle me to more, adding that the Indean cost the country a great deal, & concludes with
the honour of the thing--The yellow boys refuse to be attended by any other Doctor & I have patients of them now from the distance of five hundred miles, the genl. supposes the money will be paid on sight having wrote on the back of my account pray received the money and appropriate as formerly--
The Indean are very polite I believ I have some share in the cause their kindness to me is often troublesom, the N.I has nothing to fear ^at present but I think they should keep a larger fores amongst them it is owing to them I belive that the Genl wishes to keep me in this country. I am
Dr. Sir
your obdt humble Servt
Chas. Brown
Col. Hodgdon
