---
authors:
- James McHenry
collection_id: 593
collections:
- 'Misc.MSS.Coll. - Folder: Rufus King, mm79004324'
created: '2018-07-16T14:26:50+00:00'
day: '04'
description: 'The Secretary at War mentions the following to Rufus King: Indians are asking for medals that have been promised to them; discusses the design of the medals; and McHenry asks King to procure
  a book in England entitled "Rules and Regulations for the Fortification, Field Exercise, and Movements of His Majesty''s Forces;"'
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1797120400101'
omeka_image_id: 10997
images:
- c2874de3f24f527f2fdb8572d8e0b51c39d508ca.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- medals
- plows
- newspapers
- book
- copper
- metal
- penny
- regulations
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Annapolis
- Maryland
- England
- Great Britain
- War Office
- London
notable_persons:
- Rufus King
- James McHenry
- William Hensley
- Indians
- John Adams
- son
- Indian Nation
- British
- Bend, Savage, and Bend
- British army
omeka_id: 60219
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Rufus King
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Medals for Indians, Request for a Book, Etc.
year: '1797'
---



Secy War

4 Dec<small>r</small>. 1797

187-

War Office 4 Dec<small>r</small>. 1797 

Dear Sir.

I forwarded your letter to M<small>r</small>. W<small>m</small>. Hemsley 
whose son had gone to England previous to my receiving
it, and who has no doubt waited upon you. The 
young gentleman is well qualified for this station
you contemplated for him. His father is rich
extremely respectable and esteemed.

My poor Indians are very clamorous
for their medals, more so indeed than for their plows.
     
I have very lately seen a penny 
of the new British copper coinage, the edge or rim 
of which is considerably thicker that the plate
part that contains the figures or devices. I should
think were the Indian medals to be so formed, it
would add to their strength without requiring 
any increase in the quantity of metal. It occurs
also, should the work be still in a state to
admit of alteration that one side of the medal 
might exhibit figures of a warlike nature, and 
the United States as protectrix of the Indians. I should
wish in this case the legend to be Presidency 
John Adams 1797. The medal would then comprehend
[undecipherable]

188

both Presidencies.

I have written to Bird Savage & Bird
for a book intitled "Rules & regulations for the forma[=]
=tion, field exercise and movements of his majesty['s]
forces." As this work has been printed and distri=
=buted to the officers of the British army only, and 
is not to be purchased it may require a special
application to obtain it from the war department
If so, may I request you to procure it for me[.]
I am engaged in digesting regulations for ou[r] 
army and stand in need of such lights as this 
compilation must afford. There is also an 
abridgement of the regulations which I shoul[d]
like to possess.

I have also desired the Birds to 
send me two news-papers and to call upon 
you to name them. This is to intrude upon 
your time and good nature about a trifle;
but as I do not know those papers some
would denominate the Finne's & Backe's
of London I hope you will excuse this 
liberty.

I have the pleasure to
189

inform you that you are a very great fa=
=vorite at Annapolis & with the State of 
Maryland.

I am truly & sincerely D Sir

your obSr

James McHenry

Rufus King Sqr
