---
author_note: Samuel Hodgdon
authors:
- Samuel Hodgdon
collection_id: 762
collections:
- Register of Estimated Requirements for Military Supplies kept by Samuel Hodgdon and William Irvine, Jan 1796-Feb 1805. (RG45)
created: '2018-07-16T14:27:44+00:00'
day: '17'
description: Estimate of articles wanted for the troops and garrisons on the Georgia frontier for 1798.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1798041728255'
omeka_image_id: 10533
images:
- d5b31eda95d4f81d9be0670fba2eeb40eb889a3f.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- fuel
- forage
- horses
- express service
- tools
- saddles
- bridles
- geers
- erection of new barracks
- repairs
- stationery
- transportation
- clothing
- medicines
- military stores
- quarter master's stores
- Indian annuities
- presents
- payment
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Georgia
- frontier
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Quarter Master General
- John Wilkins
- troops
- garrisons
- regiment
- cavalry
- carpenters
- smiths
- artificers
- laborers
omeka_id: 62008
page_start: '82'
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Estimate of Articles Wanted for the Georgia Frontier
year: '1798'
---



82.

Estimate of Articles wanted for the Troops and Garrisons on
the Frontiers of Georgia, usually supplied through the Quarter
Master Department calculated for the supply of a Regiment
and one Company of Cavalry for the year 1798.
Dollars	Cents
Fuel	2,000	
Forage	5,000	
Purchase of Horses and hire for Express Service	1,000	
Occasional purchase of Tools for Carpenters, Smiths, &c.	200	
Saddles, Bridles, Geers, &c.	200	
Tents, Camp Kettles, and Intrenching Tools	1,000	
Erection of new Barracks & Fortifications, and repairs of the old ones	5,000	
Stationary	500	
Bar Iron, Nails, and Nail rods	1,000	
Purchase or hire of occasional transportation at the Post	3,000	
Transportation of the Clothing, Medicines, Military and Quarter Master Stores from this City and other parts (suppose 20 Loads)	7,500	
Ditto- for Indian Annuities and occasional Presents	3,000	
Dollars	29,400
Note.
No charge is made for the payment of Artificers,
Labourers &c, this must be considered as a 
contingent depending on circumstances.
Philadelphia 17th April 1798.
(Signed) Samuel Hodgdon
for the Quarter Master General
Page 82 YHA10

83.
Estimate of Articles wanted for the Troops and Garrisons
on the Frontiers of Tennesee, usually supplied through the
Quarter Masters Department, calculated for the supply
of a regiment of Infantry and one company of Cavalry
for the Year 1798.
Dollars	Cents
Fuel	2,000	
Forage	5,000	
Purchase of Horses, and hire for Express service	1,000	
Occasional Purchase of Tools for Carpenters, Smiths &c.	200	
Saddles, Bridles, Geers, &c	200	
Tents, Camp Kettles and Entrenching Tools	1,000	
Erection of New Barracks and Fortifications and repairs to the Old ones	5,000	
Stationary	500	
Bar Iron, Nails and Nail rods	1,000	
Purchase or hire of occasional Transportation at the Post	3,000	
Transportation of the Clothing, Military and Ordnance and Quarter Master Stores from this City and other Posts (suppose 20 Loads)	7,500	
Ditto for Indian Annuities & occasional presents	3,000	
Dollars	29,400
Note.
No charge is made for the payment of
Artificers, Labourers &c. This must be consid.
as a Contingent, depending on circumstances.
Philadelphia April 17th, 1798
(Signed) Samuel Hodgdon
for the Quarter Master Genl.
