---
authors:
- Constant Freeman
collection_id: 774
collections:
- Claims Files Relating to Service in the Revolutionary War, 1775-1851. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:28:42+00:00'
day: '05'
description: "Exasperated, Freeman requested Simmons relieve him of suspense regarding unanswered letters sent by Freeman to the War Office.  Freeman requested Simmons inquire about an important letter\
  \ with enclosures sent to the Secretary of State.  \"For Gods sake send me some letters.\"  \r\nDuplicates of previous letters enclosed."
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1798080570001'
omeka_image_id: 15833
images:
- 540d50f5678c1c98ff11184cf301eb02d609f18d.jpg
- fdbe95819968ee2b069dde7c309f61c7e9cedb4b.jpg
- 2a6a7e279fc4d9d77ec782ebfd88e7c033e85105.jpg
- 6793cbfac7a8db870f4403cf4f25c667395bc722.jpg
- 4708ef8284cc9c668dd2724f99a6be0414a9c8e5.jpg
month: 08
notable_locations:
- Savannah
notable_persons:
- William Simmons
- Constant Freeman
omeka_id: 63934
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- William Simmons
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Savannah
title: Request for Inquiry on Important Documents
year: '1798'
---



Savannah
5th August 1798.
Dear friend
It is impossible I should describe to you the anxiety I feel from not receiving any letters from the ole War Office in answer to those I have written since my return to this place - I think it probable you have sent me certified copies of Fauche and Randolph's payrolls but I have not yet received them - I go regularly to the post office every port day, and receive for answer that there are not any letters for me - Do, my good friend, relieve me from the most cruel suspence.
I wrote to the Secretary of State - Mr Port, on the 11th of June and enclosed some important communications - I request you would inquire whether this letter has been received.
It is not in my power to pay the militia until I receive these rolls for Fande & Randolph's troops - nor can I make a visit to Philadelphia unless I should receive permission - For god's sake send me some letters.
I am with great esteem
My dear friend
Your much obliged
[?] Freeman
William Simmons Segt.
A.D.W.
Duplicate.
Savannah 31st July 1798
Sir
Enclosed is a duplicate of my letter to you of the 24th instant and a list of the vouchers which I have transmitted to you by Mr Whitney, who sailed from this port for Philadelphia on the twenty sixth.
I have been most anxiously expecting letters from you in answer to mine of the 8th 22d & 26th of last month - a duplicate of the first I put by the stoop John, Capt. Morgan, agreeably to your [undecipherable] in your letter of the 8th May in order that you might know I had not all the rolls mentioned in the estimate for militia service - the two last letters were sent by the Schooner Charlotte via New York - I am extremely sorry I have not received copies of Fauche & Randolph's payrolls while Colonel Pope was here; it would have saved me the trouble of a journey to Augusta - Besides a line from you would have relieved my mind from the greatest anxiety.
Ensign McCall and myself have examined the muster & payrolls to the 30th of April - I have sent to the different ports for chore to the 30th of June - I shall be able with the money Mr Habersham has received, and the balance he had on hand when I first arrived to discharge the rolls to that period. I am now engaged
engaged in making an examination of Mr McCall's account and vouchers which shall be transmitted as soon as completed.
I observe in your letter to Mr McCall of the 12th instant mention is made of the compensation solicited by the Mr Whitney for his services for mustering the militia, and for doing the duty of paymaster to the regular troops - I have given Mr Whitney a certificate relative to the first and have referred therein to the letter of the Secretary of War to me of the 6th of August 1795 - He did the duty of paymaster between the periods of Lieut. Dalaho's resignation and Ensign McCall entering into the duties of that office - He made a payment to the troops - I wrote to Mr. Howell upon this subject on the 31st.. January 1795. I have not any recollection of his answer. I cannot more refer to his letters as my papers are not here.
I am with great esteem
Sir
Your most obedient
humble Servant
[undecipherable] Freeman
A.W.D.
William Simmons Esqr.
A.D.W.
