---
authors:
- John Harris
collection_id: 773
collections:
- Miscellaneous Letters Received by the Fourth Auditor, Jan 12, 1795-Dec 31, 1897. (RG217) (M1187)
created: '2018-07-16T14:29:05+00:00'
day: 08
description: Harris discusses impact of yellow fever in Philadelphia.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1798090880100'
omeka_image_id: 15364
images:
- a6510c3ab795229212cc2136861b518db4ca74b9.jpg
month: 09
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Portland
- city
- Boston
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- John Harris
- Mrs. Harris
- Secretary at War
- Mrs. Phillips
- Banger
- clerk
omeka_id: 64609
page_start: '2'
num_pages: '3'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Portland
title: Yellow Fever
year: '1798'
---



John Harris
8th September 1798
Portland Sept 8 [undecipherable]
[undecipherable] No Copy__                                    25
Samuel Hodgdon Esqr
17
Philadelphia
120

                 Portland. September 8, 1798

Dear Sir,

         Anxiety for the welfare of your self and family prompts me to enquire after it. and particularly as I find by the Philada.. [unidentified=Papers][unidentified=num] [unidentified=bers] are falling on your right hand or left by forwarding=the prevailing Epidemics in our devoted City.

         I see that a number of our Friends and acquaintance have been [undecipherable=consigned?] to the gloomy [mausion-mansions] of the [I am 6_=Lamb? not Lord] since our departenc=departure from the City, and undoubtedly many more [whose by=will shortly]  follow them._ May you & your family my dear Friend._ be shielded from the [aready shafts=deadly drafts] of the [undecipherable=subtle] [undecipherable=contagion]. and may we once more meet laden with the experiences of the protecting [undecipherable=care] of divine providence__

         I find that the Fever is not confined to Philada alone, but the deadly affects
of it have appeared in almost every town on the Coast Eastward & in [undecipherable] instances in the Coun[undecipherable] [Editors Note: word runds off end of page] Several furious have died here of a Jerusilam Fever, but at present it is tolerably healthy.
Mrs.. Harris giving me affectionately in remembrance to you & your good Lady to Miss Philliser - the young Follhr - & all Friends_
In your communications to the Sacs. of War.  I will thank you to present my contracts to him & the gentlement of the Office. be [undecipherable] to remember me to the [undecipherable]  & Man in the Store. to / Mr. Banger/ if he is with you/ and your bro-ther.     We hear the Fever in Boston is a lot the [undecipherable].
Adieu my dear Friends,_ and believe me yours Sincerely_
Samuel Hodgdon Esqr.              J. W. Harris
