---
authors:
- James McHenry
collection_id: 976
collections:
- John Adams Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:29:06+00:00'
day: '11'
description: Apologizes for not responding earlier, due to the evacuation of the public offices from fever-stricken Philadelphia.  Congratulates the recipient on Georgia's adoption of a new constitution,
  and hopes for a new period in which the federal government will not have headaches caused by "the western lands" [presumably of Georgia].  Also approves of Georgia and South Carolina's barring entrance
  to people from Port au Prince, and says the U.S. would do well to prevent such people of color from gaining entrance.  Recommends a well-prepared militia for response to sudden emergencies in Georgia's
  defense; notes that the new Navy is preparing galleys to defend Georgia's coastline.  Refers to some incident involving Indians at Coleraine as outside the U.S. boundary and thus his jurisdiction.  Mentions
  that negotiations between "Mr. Seagrove" and a Spanish government agent concerning Negroes have created a need to place the issue before the president and Congress; asks that Georgia abide by the current
  laws until such time as they might be changed.
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1798091100002'
omeka_image_id: 17743
images:
- cbf6fb58efb63bd4d27aac9345658f28d4523c51.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- defense
- defence
- yellow fever epidemic
- adoption of constitution
- articles of agreement
notable_locations:
- Georgia
- War Department
- Philadelphia
- Trenton
- New Jersey
- western lands
- South Carolina
- Port Au Prince
- Saint-Domingue
- Haiti
- Colerain
- Indian factory
- Spain
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- Secretary of War
- Governor Jackson
- Governor Georgia
- federal government
- refugees from Port Au Prince
- militia
- James Seagrove
- Benjamin Hawkins
- agent of Spanish government
- President
- Senate
- Negroes
note: "Enclosed in McHenry to Adams, 09/15/1798.\r\n\r\nLetter is likely written to the Governor of Georgia"
omeka_id: 64641
page_start: '8'
recipients:
- James Jackson
repositories:
- Massachusetts Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Measures for Georgia's Defense & Interactions with Blacks
year: '1798'
---



Copy of Mr. McHenrys
letter to Gov. Jackson of
Georgia respecting the
defence of that State &c
received Sept 20th
War department September 12. 1798
Sir
You will be pleased to consider yourself as Field Officer in Command and
of the several recruiting parties within the State [inserted, written above:] of Massachussetts [end insert] and will do all things appartaining to 
that service agreeably to the particular and regulations herewith transmitted.
As soon as you are noticed that the convicts have been removed from Castle
Island, you will examine it and report in fulness to receive the recruits and for
a general rendezvous for which use it is contemplated and for a place of Arms.
The following Officers of the second Regiment of Artillerists and Engineers
are employed on the recruiting service when your [undecipherable] Capt. Ames Stoddard
at Portland _ Capt. Samuel Gates at Boston and L. George Washington Duncan Marblehead.
As the fifteenth and sixteenth articles of the regulations are intended
to have application only upon an extensive [undecipherable] of recruiting they are
to be considered in the present state of things as inapplicable and not
entitling the Commandant & to any extra allowances other than the
actual expence they are at for stationey and portage of letters to be
certified as required.
Your Command, as yet, is to be considered merely as a
recruiting station and not intitle you to the extra Rations - 
granted by the fourth section of the act of the 3.d March 1797 to an
Officer commanding a spearate fort.
I am Sir the
signed James MHenry

Major Danl. Jackson
Copy
War department Trenton
11th September 1798
Sir
I have received your Letter of the 17th June ultimo
together with the several Papers enclosed.
The derangement occasioned by the sudden removal
of the Public Offices from Philadelphia, in consequence of the
fatal epidemic, which rages in that devoted City, have rendered
it impossible for me to observe that punctuality in Business
which I wish to do. This is the Reason why you have not
received my Answer before.
The adoption of a Constitution which is no doubt, not
calculated to promote the Interests and happiness of the Citizens
of Gerogia, is a subject of much congratulation. And I am
confident that with respect to the western Lands, which have
heretofore been the subject of so much Altercation and disquiet.
The Federal Government whenever it is neccessary will take up the
Business on fair, just and honorable terms; and with dis[undecipherable]
not less amicable and conciliatory than thou I with pleasure
see, expected in your Letter.
There however are affairs on which I can only speak as
an Individual.
The vigorous Measures pursued by the States of Georgia
and South Carolina, to prevent the refugees from Port au Prince
from intruding themselves into these States, are people of a
vigilant and active Exectutive.
