---
authors:
- Samuel Hodgdon
collection_id: 713
collections:
- Samuel Hodgdon Letterbook, Philadelphia, Pa., Arsenal, 1798-99.
created: '2018-07-16T14:29:09+00:00'
day: '14'
description: Amidst a discussion of supply matters, Hodgdon despairs that even though his family remains well, all of his neighbors have left due to fear of contagion.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1798091428155'
omeka_image_id: 10838
images:
- 98194e9814afae0cc8d4053dde811d4c122f9c51.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- account of the Shipwrights remaining
- payments
- drafts
- my House
- rooms are commodious
- instruments of music
- valuable and rare maps with explanatory books
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- Isaac Craig
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Shipwrights
- my family
- my neighbors
- God
- Colonel Sargent
- General [James] Wilkinson
- trusty wagoner
omeka_id: 64691
page_start: '225'
recipients:
- Isaac Craig
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: All My Neighbors Have Left Me
year: '1798'
---



Philadelphia 14th September 1798
Sir
This morning I received your letter of the 7th inst. I am obliged by your particular account of the Shipwrights remaining with you. I shall now conduct my payments with information.
I am sorry I did not receive your letter that accompanies this before you had occasion to make the drafts you mention they will however meet due honour the arrangement made will prevent further drafts on me. I am still at my Post and my family are at theirs; the situation of my House is airy, and the rooms in it are commodious, yet all my neighbours have left me who have the same advantages and so compleatly is our City deserted, that I have neither friend nor neighbour in the vicinity of my house or Office, yet blessed be God myself, & family remain perfectly well. My wife 226
Wife and family remain perfectly well would not go without me and I had on mature deliberation determined to say and attend to my business.
A Box containing sundry small articles for Colo Sargent, and another containing very costly & valuable instruments of Music are on the road to your address for Genl Wilkinson. with two valuable & rare Maps with explanatory Books. The last went loose, but was committed to the charge of a trustee Waggonner, who said he would deliver them to you in perfect order. When received I wish you to pack them in perfect order. When received I wish you to pack them in such a manner as to ensure their getting safely to their ultimate destination. I depend on your known care & attention to get all these articles safely forward. adieu
I am Sir Your most Obt. Servant
Samuel Hodgdon
Major I Craig
