---
authors:
- George Washington
collection_id: 975
collections:
- Gilder Lehrman Collection.
created: '2018-07-16T14:29:13+00:00'
day: '30'
description: Washington wary of "brawlers" sudden change in attitude.  Believed to infiltrate, divide, and contaminate the military against the government.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1798093040401'
omeka_image_id: 13714
images:
- 29d89661dccaf29cf2e88f07ced4f303683446c9.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- commissions in the army
- Maryland Gazette
- election meetings
- discontent
- commissions
- seditious discourse
- overturn to government
- invasion
- elections
notable_locations:
- Mount Vernon
- Virginia
- France
- Maryland
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- George Washington
- brawlers
- dissenters
- Secretary of War
- army
- democrat
omeka_id: 64866
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- Pierpont Morgan Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Mount Vernon
title: Wary of Dissenters
year: '1798'
---



30 Novber. 1798
Geo. Washington
No. 4 Nu our
anser? New Stu.
Mount Vernon 30th Sep
1798
Dear Sir, 
I have lately received information, which, in my opinion, merits attention. __ It is that the brawler against governmental measures in some of the most discontented parts of the stat, have, all of a sudden, become silent; and, it is added, are very desirous of obtaining commissions in the army about to be raised.___
This information did not fail to leave an impression upon my mind at the time I received it, but it has acquired strength from a publication I have lately seen in one of the many land Gazettes (between the Author of which and my informant, there can't have been no interchange of sentiment) to the same effect.__
The motives ascribed ^ to them are, that in
in such a situation they would endeaveur to divide, & contaminate the army, by artful & seditious discourses, and perhaps at a critical moment, bring on confusion.__What weight to give these conjectures you can judge of as well as I.__ But, as there with be characters enough of an opposite description, who are ready to receive appointments, circumspection is necessary;-- for my opinion of the first are, that you could as soon [undecipherable]al the blackamose what, as to change the principles of a profest Democrat, and that be with leave nothing unattended to overturn the Government of this Country,__
Finding the resentment of the People at the conduct of France too strong to be resisted, they have, in appearance, adopted their sentiment; and pretend that, withstanding the misconduct of government have brought it upon us, yet, if an Invasion should to be place, it with be found that they with be among the first
first to defend it.__ This is their story at an Elections, and Election meetings, and told in many instances will effect
Whether^they be like, much, or nothing in the information, I shall not take upon me to decide;_but it appeared to me to be of sufficient moment to apprise you thereof_ With esteem & repd.
I am-- Dear Sir 
Your Obedt. HbleServt.
Go Washington 




The Secretary of War.
