---
authors:
- Doctor Charles Brown
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:29:17+00:00'
day: '05'
description: Currently there are only four skins availble and Mr. Schiefflin will report that there is not another to be found in this country although Brown has had every merchant in the region trying
  to locate them. He inquires about his pay for attending the Indians and admits that he has had troubles with them.
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1798100580201'
omeka_image_id: 5763
images:
- d416e0b1ec9ba357af9395c312b4d0812fbd67b3.jpg
- 7b2a19fb7edde1280ca20f4b91e33e053beb3e34.jpg
- fb0247fb8299aa9eec0183406b2bf6a0958e50df.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- pay
- medical attendance
- family
- money
- bill of exchange
- skins
notable_locations:
- Detroit
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- '[Doctor] Charles Brown'
- Mr. Schiefflin
- merchant
- Indians
- white men
- red men
- Captain Bissell
- Major Rivardi
note: Partially illegible.
omeka_id: 64956
page_start: '1'
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Detroit
title: My Pay for Attending the Indians, Etc.
year: '1798'
---



[Editor's note: Paper divided into thirds. Text is located in middle section, starting at the right margin, but oriented toward the left margin.]
Doctor Charles Brown
5th Octo 1798
Recd 3rd December
Answired 18th Decemr
Private--
360 [Editor's note: This number is circled and written in different handwriting.]
[Editor's note: The text immediately below was stamped or typed.]
Received
from
State Dep't.
Nov.24.1894.
R.P.O. 401310

[Editor's note: The date below was handwritten at the left margin, oriented toward the left margin.]
1798
Detroit 5th October 1798--
My Dr. Sir,
[Editor's note: The text immediately below was stamped or typed below salutation.] 
Received 
from 
State Dep't. 
Nov.24.1894. 
R.P.O. 401310
[Body of letter begins below.]

One year has elapsed sinc I was favoured with your last...I wrote you in june last by Capn. Bifull inclosing a bill of exchange on the secretory of War for 1000 dollars, and sundry other papers which I hope he delivered. to you [Editor's note: A splotch of ink follows which may be an em dash.]
You will received this my friend W. Schiefflin also some articles that I would have forwarded long ago if I could have had an oppertunity, there are only four fox skines & my friend will inform you that there could not be another procured in this country although I had every merchant in the places employed to assist me [Editor's note: A splotch of ink follows which may be an em dash.]
I hope you and your family enjoy good health please let me hear from you in proportion to your long silance, if money can be employed to the same advantages & without risk as you formerly mentioned I will trouble you a little more about the end of the year--Pray if you hear of my recall inform me in time to settle my business here that I may not be harmed of to disadvantage, have you received the
the Indean W. Schiefflin will represent what trouble I have with them & inform you of any particilar respecting me. he is a man of strict varacity & fills his offecis to the intire satisfaction of all concerned in this country both [undecipherable] and white men. Pray remember me as [undecipherable], I Consider myself under many obligations to you & am 
My Dr. Sir,
your very humble servant
Chas. Brown
[Editor's note: Name underscored with a looping fluorish.]
