---
authors:
- Samuel Hodgdon
collection_id: 713
collections:
- Samuel Hodgdon Letterbook, Philadelphia, Pa., Arsenal, 1798-99.
created: '2018-07-16T14:29:20+00:00'
day: '12'
description: Hodgdon discusses sundry supply and political matters and reports on the fever in Philadelphia which seemed to have abated but deaths continue to plague the city.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1798101228055'
omeka_image_id: 10838
images:
- 9c63b790ae846271b4f879f51b1838f0da4304e4.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- advances
- account of Losbury, Turner, & Miller
- General Nevil's draft
- balance of monies
- stores
- requisition
- election
- Federalism
- sickness
- deaths
- infection
- preventatives
- retreat
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Pittsburgh
notable_persons:
- Isaac Craig
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Jacob Death
- General [John] Nevil
- General Miller
- Secretary of War [McHenry]
- General [James] Wilkinson
note: Cited in Craig to Hodgdon, 10/19/1798.
omeka_id: 65039
page_start: '247'
recipients:
- Isaac Craig
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Federalism is Completely Triumphant, Etc.
year: '1798'
---



Philada 12th October 1798
Sir
I have only a moment to answer your letter of the 29th Instant and 1st and 5th instant which came to hand together this morning and are now before me. Jacob Death walked to the City from Pittsburg in nine days and has been with me. I shall do all in my power to facilitate his return to you. I have not time to examine, but believe no advances have been on account of Losbury, Turner and MIller, since those of the date you mention, I shall examine when they call and advise you
I concluded General Nevils draft in favour of General Miller for 2000 Dollars would be a deduction from the balance of Monies remaining on hand the remainder will keep you in countenance for some time. I have nothing from the Secy of War relative to the stores returned for by GenSuperscript textl Wilkinson. I enclosed the requisition the day it was received and urged an immediate compliance I will write him again on the subject. Our election is over and federalism is compleatly triumphant I hope it will be so with you. The sickness seemed to abate for a few days and our hopes were alive but the event has shewn we were to sanguine for Death's are again multiplied. Myself an family remain well. We have kept ourselves as clear of infection as the case would admit, and have hitherto succeeded. I have used no preventitive of any kind and have attended my office every day as usual. But the scenes have been too distressing to induce me again to witness them. -turn over- 248
If spared this time - I propose to provide a retreat at a small distance from the City, to which I may in any event repair - Adieu
I am Sir your most Obedt Servant
Samuel Hodgdon
Major Isaac Craig
