---
authors:
- John McKee
collection_id: 539
collections:
- 'McHenry Family Papers, MS #647'
created: '2018-07-16T14:29:20+00:00'
day: '12'
description: John McKee writes to the Secretary at War about Spanish intrigue on the Mississippi River. Mentions the Natchez Indians and the broader Louisiana Territory. Also makes mention of General James
  Wilkinson
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1798101240001'
omeka_image_id: 10925
images:
- d9edc418bc7b1b83075099715cd28a608c21f84f.jpg
month: '10'
notable_locations:
- Trenton
- Natchez
- Louisiana
- Kentucky
- New Orleans
- Fredericksburg
- Virginia
- Spain
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- John McKee
- Philip Nolan
- James Wilkinson
- Beverly Chew
- Thomas Powers
- Henry Willis
- Elisha Craig
- Judge Sebastian
- spies
- Spanish Court
- Indians
- Natchez
omeka_id: 65042
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- Maryland Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Trenton
title: The Louisiana Territory and Spanish
year: '1798'
---



Co 10 (No 19)
John McKea Trenton 12 Octbr 1798
Gen. Wilkinson
Sebastian
Powers, -
Noland, -
The Honorable James McHenry Esqr.
Secretary of War
Trenton, October 12th 1798.
Sir,
In a letter I had the honor of writing you from Natchez dated sometime in April 97 I think I hinted to you that an officer high in the confidence of the United States Government was then charged with an improper connection with the Spaniards, I afterwards in a letter dated about the 17th of June from Pensacola gave you the name of the Officer and all the grounds for suspecting such a connection that had come within my knowledge this was the first time my duty was imposed a painful task on me, and have never touched the subject but from a conviction of duty nor without great pain to my feelings, for from every thing I could possibly come at there remains a possibility of the Generals innocence, and many tho only presumptive evidences of guilt.
Mr. Philip Nolan who has for years past been in the 
habit
habit of passing through Louisiana from Kentucky as the known agent of General Wilkinson told a friend of his that in the Spring of 97 he could have drawn from the kings coffers at Orleans any sum he would have named on account of the General, and it was reported and pretty generally credited then that he had received five thousand Dollars, I think Mr. Beverley Chew of Fredrickburg (Virginia) who was Nolan's confidential friend so far as related to money matters was my author. It is certain that Nolan has permission to explore the country Westward of the Mississippi as far as “St. Fe” and it is not easy to find an excuse for a jealous Spaniard granting such extraordinary privileges to a young interprising adventurer whose principal residence is in the family of an officer of the United States and one whose duty would call him on the first rupture between the two governments, to invade their country, more vulnerable and more assessable to us in the very quarter where Nolan now is than in any other. This with the extraordinary visit of Thomas Powers to these quarters of which you must have been informed and his more extraordinary return under the escort of a con
confidential officer have ingrafted on my mind suspicions of the General which nothing but a full explanation of the nature and object of his misterious connection with the Spanish officers can remove. Henry Willis who resided several years on the Mississippi atested to a Mr. Elisha Craig ^of Kentucky that he knew there was at that time (six or seven years ago) a commission of Colonel in the Spanish Army for the General in Orleans.
During the latter part of June and first of July last Judge Sebastian of Kentucky was in New Orleans evidently on business of a secret nature with the Governor – It is said he was about answering a correspondence between certain disaffected characters of that State and the Spanish Court, which had originally for its object the secession of the western country particularly Kentucky from the Union, and which was broken up by the Treaty with Spain. On my way from Natchez to Orleans, in July last I met the Judge and his
son
son ascending the Mississippi in a Spanish Galley and found that whilst in Orleans he had been treated with marked attention. – The Government of the United States cannot too early take decisive measures to give an effectual check to intrigue on the Mississippi.
I have the honor to be with very great respect and esteem 
Your Obedient Servant
John McKee
[editor's note: the signature had fancy flourishes underneath as a sort of underlining]
The Hon’ble
James McHenry Esqr.
Secretary of War
[editor's note: following was a stamp, at bottom right of the page]
NOTICE
This material may be protected by
copyright law (Title 17 U.S. Code)
MS 647
THIS COPY IS MADE FOR REFERENCENOT TO BE REPRODUCED OR PUBLISHED
WITHOUT PERMISSION BY THE MANUSCRIPTS DIVISION
MARYLAND HISTORICAL SOCIETY LIBRARY
201 W. MONUMENT ST., BALTIMORE, MD 21201
