---
authors:
- Timothy Pickering
collection_id: 976
collections:
- John Adams Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:29:20+00:00'
day: '13'
description: Pickering forwards correspondence from France, namely reports of the Directory's raising of the embargo on American shipping and the departure of General Pinckney for America.  Remarks that
  the wife of Lafayette has been imprisoned in France.  Also notes that he has received letters from John Quincy Adams at Berlin, currently renewing a treaty with Prussia, and encloses a private letter
  for the president from a Mr. Murray.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1798101300101'
omeka_image_id: 17746
images:
- dcfdd0951f0f126c77641e9189e3673ce2b23594.jpg
month: '10'
notable_items:
- shipping
- embargo
- letter
notable_locations:
- Department of State, Trenton
- France
- Berlin
- Prussia
notable_persons:
- John Adams
- Timothy Pickering
- The Directory
- LaFayette
omeka_id: 65054
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- John Adams
repositories:
- Massachusetts Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Department of State, Trenton
title: Forwarding of Correspondence and News from France & Berlin
year: '1798'
---



II 139
Department of State Trenton Oct.13.1798
Sir,
Last evening I received letters from Bordeaux, by which it appears that General Pinckney embarked with his family, about the middle of August, for New York.  The letters came in the ship Franklin, arrived in the river Delaware.  I inclose copies of these letters, being Mr. Shipworth's to Mr. Fenwick, mentioning that on the 21st of August he had received an official copy of an arret of the Directory, taking off the embargo on Ame- rican vessels; & Mr. Fenwicks of Augt. 28th covering the former.  A private letter to me from a Mr. Theodore Peters, a Dutch merchant at Bordeaux of reputation dated Augt. 27th says "The news brought by the liberty has made no great sensation."  The inclosed copy of a letter dated at Bordeaux Augt. 27 from Mr. Hory gives the information concerning General Pinckey's departure.  A Paris newspaper of the 24th of August, sent by Mr. Hory for Genl.
Pinckney, contains Philadelphia news of the 24th news of the 24th of July.   An extract of those articles in inclosed; to which is add (from the same paper) a paragraph showing that the wife of Mr. La Fayette was in Paris, looking af ter her estates, impaired while she was confined
in
in the "Austrian Dungeon."  This perhaps is to pre [blackened area] the way for the return of her husband.
I have read letters from Mr. Adams at Berlin dated July 16t, relative to the renewal of the treaty with Prussia, which is deagphing {?}; and July 23d. giving an account of the rending homage to the Thing by his nobles and people.  The latter I have the honor to inclose; together with a private letter addressed to you from Mr. Murray.
I am, with great respect,
Sir, your most obdt. Servant,
Timothy Pickering
The President of the United States.
