---
authors:
- Samuel Augustus Barker
collection_id: 967
collections:
- Alexander Hamilton Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:29:23+00:00'
day: '17'
description: Barker recommends Elhanan W. Wheeler, a man of unblemished moral character, for a position in the Provisional Army.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1798101760001'
omeka_image_id: 20015
images: []
month: '10'
notable_items:
- recommendations
- liberal education
- University of Cambridge
- polite behavior
- easy manners
- moral character
- mankind
- military life
- property
- without connections in this state
- appointment
- profession for life
notable_locations:
- New York
- Beekman Dutchess County
- County of Worcester, State of Massachusetts
notable_persons:
- Alexander Hamilton
- Samuel A. Barker
- Mr. [Philip] Schuyler
- Elhanan W. Wheeler
- the French
- Corps of the Army
- Mr. [William] North
note: "Hamilton's endorsement reads: \"Answered. Will be attended to.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nSyrett listed this document in the Appendix to Vol. 22."
omeka_id: 65116
recipients:
- Alexander Hamilton
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
title: Recommendation for Elhanan W. Wheeler
year: '1798'
---



Samuel A. Barker
Military Commander
Answered      10
and attended to
The honable Alexander Hamilton Esqr
New York
pg. 51. [margin note]     Beekman Dutchess County Oct 17th 1798
Sir

    Having been lately informed by Mr Schuyler that recommendations of persons qualified to serve as officers in the army were made to you, I take the liberty of recommending to your consideration Mr Elhanan W. Wheeler, a young gentleman who is a native of the Count of Worcester, State of Massachusets, now residing in the County of Dutchess [editor's note: in New York].  He has had a liberal education at the University of Cambridge in that State.  He has an enlightened mind, his behaviour polite, his manners easy and agreable attached to no vice, his moral character is unblemished. He is well acquainted with mankind, and is in short both the improved sir and accomplished Gentleman and having imbibed a passion for military life, I am perfectly assured, if he has the opportunity, will be an ornament to the profession of army.

    What property he sat out with in life, has been taken, from him by the French, and he is without connexions in this State.  His friends are only those who have been made such, by his good conduct since here.
pg 52 [margin note]

    If he should be be so fortunate, as to obtain an appointment, his choice would be, in one of the Corps of the army, that is on the most permanenent establishment, as he has no other idea, but of making it a profession for life.

    Owing to a want of knowledge of the proper person, to whom recommendations of this kind, ought to be sent, one similar to this was forwarded to Mr North, one of the Senators of this State, towards the close of the last Session of Congress, to which application no answer has yet been received.

    With sentiments of the highest respect, I take the liberty of subscribing[?] myself your friend, and very humble Servant



    Samuel Augustus Barker


Alexander Hamilton Esqr
