---
authors:
- George Washington
collection_id: 846
collections:
- 'Sixth Congress:  Executive Nominations to the Senate [6B-A2 & A3] (RG46) (M1706, roll 4)'
created: '2018-07-16T14:29:47+00:00'
day: '13'
description: General Washington expresses his confidence in the ability and integrity of Colonel William Smith and wonders how Abijah Hammond could have been considered for the post of Lieutenant Colonel
  Commandant instead of Smith. He suspects that Major Burrows has voiced suspicions respecting Smith but regards those suspicions as entirely unfounded.
doc_types:
- Autograph, Contemporaneous or Certified Copy, Signed
document_number: '1798121340101'
omeka_image_id: 18663
images: []
month: '12'
notable_items:
- political opinions
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- George Washington
- Colonel William Smith
- Abijah Hammond
- Lieutenant Colonel Commandant
- Major Burrows
- President United States
- officers
- William Constable
- creditor
note: This document, forwarded under a private letter of the same date by Washington, is a draft in the hand of Hamilton.
omeka_id: 65720
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Suspicions of Colonel Smith are Without Foundation
year: '1798'
---



Philadelphia Decr. 13. 1798
Sir,
You will observe that in the arrangiment of the officers allotted to New York, there is an alternative of William S. Smith or Abijah Hammond for Lieutenant Colonel Commandant__ Various considerations demand that the motive of this situation should be explained.
Had military qualifications alone been consulted, the name of Col. Smith would have stood singly and he would have been deemed a valuable acquisition to the Service.__ Had there been no other source of objection than the erroneous Political opinions lately attributed to him, his honor and attachment to his Country would have been relied upon. _ But as well myself as the two Generals whose and I have had in the nominations, have been afflicted with the insomnation well or ill founded, that he stands changed in the opinion of his fellow litigens, with very serious instances of private misconduct // instances which affect directly his integrity as a man_ The instances allowed are various; but there is one which has come forward in a shape which did not permit us to refuse it our attention,__ It repeats an attempt knowingly to pledge Property to Major Burrows, by way of Security, which was before conveyed or Mortgaged, for its full realize to Mr. Wm. Constable without giving notice of the circumstance, and with the aggregation that Major Burrows had become the Creator of Col. Smith through friendship to an Amount which has proved intirely ruinous to him // which the impossibility of disregarding this information forbade the Selection of Col. Smith absolutely
absolutely : yet the possibility that it might amount of some fair explanation defended from a conclusion against him.
As it will be in your Power to obtain- further lights on the Subject, it has appeared advisable to leave the matter in the undetermined form in which it is presented and to assign the reason for it.
You are at perfect liberty to communicate this letter to the President. Candeur is particularly due to him in such a case. It is my wish to give him every proof of frankness, respect and esteem. 
Lest it should be supposed that Major Burrows has officiously interfered to the prejudice of Col. Smith, it is but justice to him to declare that- such a Suspicion would be entirely without formdation.
with great consideration and regard
I have the honor to be
Sir, 
Your most obt. Serot.
(Signed) Go. Washington 

The Secretary of War.
