---
authors:
- Henry Glen
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:29:51+00:00'
day: '22'
description: 'In this mostly illegible letter, the following can be identified: clothing, vessel, Niagara, Kingston, stores, Oswego.'
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1798122280101'
omeka_image_id: 5980
images:
- 662f733518873fae879bab82c8781ce16e8bdf82.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- vessel
- clothing
- winter
- stores
notable_locations:
- Congress Hall
- New York
- Niagara
- Kingston
- Fort Stanwix
- carrying place
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Henry Glen
note: Largely illegible.
omeka_id: 65835
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Congress Hall
title: No Vessel Arriving from Niagara, Etc.
year: '1798'
---



Congress Hall 22. Decr 1796.
Sir
Your letter of yesterday was handed me I shall Call on you the day after Chrismas with my Voucher for the money you advanced for the Transporting of Cloathing &c.
As to Colo Thompson writing you that the Cloathing [undecipherable] with him till Augt is [undecipherable] Accountd for [undecipherable] Schonectady on the 2th of Novr 97 [undecipherable] Circumstances. in Geting to oswego before that winter set in & the Cloathing did not arrive with me till the 3d of Novr 97. thats some of them So of Course no vessills arriving at oswego from Niagara or Kingston ware they winter until May & perhaps not till the beginning of June then.
then when they arrive at Niagara these stores must be carted 16 miles not allways Carriages to be had they [undecipherable] to wait some times two weeks & sometimes three before a Vessill arriving from Detroit at Fort Erie to take in the Stores. As to the [undecipherable] which was detaind at Fort Stanwix was forwardd by Oswego to Niagara But Could not [undecipherable] with Coln Strong when he wrote you in Augt last and as to some damages to the Cloathing is no strange thing to me Lying [undecipherable] in Boomhouse at Oswego. Generally, [undecipherable]  dam that [undecipherable] from Schonectady to Oswego with [undecipherable] such as are Cloath. All tho, I must say this [undecipherable] Good order when they leftSchonectady & all left in Good order to Oswego. But the Boom [undecipherable] before [undecipherable] Carrying place at Niagara Lying out in the Rain often in short these Packages are to under go a Great rise before they Get to their Journeys end.
I am Sir
Your most obed Humble Servant
H. Glen
Samuel Hodgdon Esqr
