---
authors:
- Samuel Hodgdon
collection_id: 713
collections:
- Samuel Hodgdon Letterbook, Philadelphia, Pa., Arsenal, 1798-99.
created: '2018-07-16T14:30:08+00:00'
day: '25'
description: Has informed Barnard Hudson of the decision to abandon the post at Fort Ranselaer [?]. Has contacted Michael Houden about securing the stores there. Concern about difficulty of transporting
  ordnance. No removal has taken place; encourages matters come under Houden rather than abandoning the store. Encourages a reissue of order to abandon and deliver so as not to lose military stores
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1799012528055'
omeka_image_id: 10838
images:
- 4d703008aa3b198dde2ad9585aa7d4d66e5b94b7.jpg
month: '01'
notable_items:
- Ordnance
- military stores
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Fort Ranselaer [?]
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Barnard Hudson
- Michael Houden
omeka_id: 66213
page_start: '351'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Expresses Concern about Military Stores at Abandoned Fort Ronselare
year: '1799'
---



Philadelphia 25th January 1799. 
Sir
On the 17th January 1798 agreeable to your instructions I wrote to Barnard Hudson & informed him of your determination to discontinue the Port at Fort Ranselaer, and at the same time pointed out to him the method of closing his concerns respecting the business Under the same date I wrote to Michael Houden Store keeper at Albany to make the arrangement with Mr. Houden for securing the stores: both letter were duly received,
and answered.  Difficulties with respect to the transportation of the Ordnance & heavy Stores were urged on account of the season of the year.  On this subject I again wrote to Mr. Hudson on the 14th February, & communicated fully your directions on the Subject, since which time untill the 2d instant, I have heard nothing further on the business.  It seems however that no removal has taken place & that the stores have remained under the care of Mr. Hudson as usual, and I trust you will think they ought to remain under his care until he has complied with the orders given respecting them, at which time he would naturally come forward to shew the reason why they were not earlier attended to & urge his claim for compensation for their safe keeping.  
It certainly will not do to abandon the Stores & base them where they are in charge of no person this would insure a total loss of every thing capable of being taken away.  I think it best to renew the order for delivery of the Stores as at first directed and then to present his claims for compensation all of which is submitted.  
I am Sir &c Samuel Hodgdon
Jas. McHenry Esqr
Secretary of War
