---
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:30:21+00:00'
day: '20'
description: Doctor Brown asks to remain in Detroit so he can continue his experiments on some plants that the Indians claim have medicinal value.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1799022080101'
omeka_image_id: 6180
images:
- a557b1db3b756b9cc8b32eed43cda5dabbc74775.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- another winter
- experiment on a type of medicinal plant
- mineral substance
- curiosity
- sale of their land
- Newspapers
notable_locations:
- Detroit
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Charles Brown
- Mr. Stagg
- Dr. Barton
- Secretary of War
- Indians
- President
- Col. Strong
omeka_id: 66503
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Experiment on a Type of Medicinal Plant
year: '1799'
---



Doctor Charles Brown
20th Feby 1799
Recd 12th April
42 [This number is circled.  It was also written in a different hand and with a lighter shade of ink or with pencil]
[The following text was stamped or typed.]
Received 
from
State Dep't.
Nov. 24. 1896
H.R.O. 401810.
[The text immediately below is on a separate piece of paper. Facing the left margin, it appears to be a partial scan of page 1, zqd/ZQD21001.jpg.]
Doctor Charles Brown
20th Feby 1799
Detroit Feby 20th 1799
Dr. Sir,
[The text immediately below is stamped or typed.]
Received
from
State Dep't.
Nov. 24. 1894.
R.P.O. 401310
I wrote you a few days ago, since which I have received yours of the 28th. Feby. by Mr. Kaggs, your of the 18th Feby. has not arrived.
In my last I mentioned a wish to remain here a nother winter and had began a sett of experiments on a tribe of medicinal plants & mineral substances. I requested you to join Doctor Barton in mentioning this to the secretary of War not doubting but he will give me the chance of satisfying my curiosity & probably of serving the [See discussion.]
I am sorrow W. Schefflive lost your skines the package contained beside a
number of [indecipherable] and some letter --  
The Indians that were lately with your are now in my quarter. They complain much of the presedent for not sanctioned the former sale of their lands
Pray write me soon & let me know what the secretary of war says & send m [Rest of word cut off.][indecipherable] paper as often as you can -- Col. Strong compl.t I hope you will send him something good in the spring -- Remember me a [indecipherable] -- I am
D.r Sir
your hone-t Serv.t
Chas. Brown
Col. Hodgdon
