---
authors:
- John Jacob Rivardi
collection_id: 967
collections:
- Alexander Hamilton Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:30:21+00:00'
day: '21'
description: Rivardi responds in detail to Capt. Bruff's charges against him.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1799022190201'
omeka_image_id: 19923
images:
- ba894b89c1731b23a19fe5312f3e5409a5bbd20f.jpg
month: '02'
notable_items:
- charges brought against me
- my character
- extra duty
- public services
- trades
- vexatious transfer
- superabundance of commissioned officers
- clothing
- promotion
- papers of the garrison
- dipatches
- cruel treatment
- guard house
- dispute between two soldiers
- stolen camp kettle
- invasion of  his prerogatives
- public property
- furniture
- table made for me
- floor of my office
- chairs
- material repairs of the works
- quarters
- house where I live
- expense
- sickness
- rations
- Doctor's returns
- purity of my intentions
- my innocence
- accusations of a darker dye
- democratical venom
- instructions
- long postscript
notable_persons:
- Tobias Lear
- John Jacob Rivardi
- Court of Inquiry
- soldiers
- teamster
- axe-man
- mason
- blacksmith
- Sergeant Brown
- infantry
- artillery
- detachment
- Orderly Sergeant of Capt. [James] Bruff
- woman with child
- servants
- women of the garrison
- our neighbors
note: Syrett listed this document in the Appendix to Vol. 22.  Enclosed in Lear to Hamilton, 03/30/1799.
omeka_id: 66514
recipients:
- Tobias Lear
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
title: Answering the Charges Brought Against Me
year: '1799'
---



Military  only
pg 18. 
The time which must elapse before a Court of Enguiry can determine on the charges brought against me, is a painful circumstance; and the Idea that during that interval, my character remains attached and impeached, induces me to add a few observationes to those contained in my letters - I detailed Soldiers out  of their turn for extra duty, because it is an impossibility to perform such duty in rotation, without injuring the public Service. - a Man may write well and be a bad Teamster, or Axe-man; and a Mason or Blacksmith, 
when one is to be had out of the line, cannot be replaced by such men, as know nothing of thoses trades.
3. The only vexatious transfer I ever made is that of Serjeant  Brown from the Infantry to the Artillery, because in the former detachment there was a superabundance of non-Commissioned Officers and no Clothing whereas the Artillery wanted an an appointment of that kind and had no Soldier that could be commanded for promotion, as mentioned in my letters.
4. The orderly Serjeant of Capitain Bruff was the only one who could attend to the papers of the Garrison; I gave him leave as soon as the monthly dispatches were over, to write for Capitain Bruff, who to the last, used him as orderly Serjeant.
5. I prevented the cruel treatment of Capitain Bruff to Woman with child: when he wanted them to work, and to act as Servants in his house.  I fancy, I even  took them out of the Guard House: where he had confined them in that situation.
6. I heard once a dispute between two Soldiers, concerning a stolen Camp Kettle; but on Captain Bruff's complaining of an invasion of his prerogatives,  I referred the matter to him.
As to the wasting public property by dismantling the Barracks &c for
for furniture, I had only one Table made for me - The floor of my office is so decayed, that the Chairs go through, I might have  a new one laid, but the mere material repairs of the works prevented me from doing it. At my arrival, I found no quarters prepared; the house
where I live, and which had been abandoned by Captain Bruff was not worth repairing is now at very little expence in a condition to
be inhabited for years.
Lastly - I ordered rations to the Women of the Garrison when they were confined by sickness, and that on the Doctor's Returns.  Having thus gone briefly through the whole of Captain Bruff's charges, I shall, with the consiousness of the purity of my intensions wait for the 
opportunity to vindicate my innocence. - My retorting accusation of a darker dye against Captain Bruff would be out of place at this moment, but in time I may prove that his democratical venom  nearly alienated the whole of our neighbours and that the orders which he issued while commanding were totally in contradiction with his Instructions. - Please to excuse this long Postscript and permit me to repeat the assurance of any respect.
J.J.U. Rivardi
Maj. A & E
