---
authors:
- Ann Young
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:30:43+00:00'
day: '05'
description: Shortly after arriving in Baltimore, Mrs. Young's brother took a front store in the spirit and grocery line though unfortunately, he has been afflicted by rheumatism. Her sister got married
  to a decent young man and is now in her own house. Baltimore being a friendly large town still falls short of Philadelphia and she misses her many acquaintances in that city.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1799040580101'
omeka_image_id: 5989
images:
- 6fa9e404f95deb5cafaf2fae74a7dfd586272eea.jpg
- 3de334bbeddba69cd5194dfc06a39a4db5ffb0e1.jpg
- 6adf2aeca654f1f0e04bc872f1ad0c9a3063a43a.jpg
- 308774084af217cf939d354bc223b592ca730c53.jpg
- 82820f1c152b93d7f08b6bb045c0e0997aaac20f.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- store
- spirits
- grocery
- lodgings
- married
- rheumatism
- welfare
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Baltimore
- Fells Point
- Market Street
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Ann Young
- brother
- sister
- family
- Mrs Maria Hodge
- Andrew Hodge
- Doctor Green
- Hazard family
- Mrs. Hodgdon
note: Partially illegible due to document loss and tearing.
omeka_id: 67099
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Baltimore
title: My Brother is Afflicted with Rheumatism, Etc.
year: '1799'
---



Mr. Samuel Hodgdon Superintendant of Stores [illegible] Mulberry Str [illegible] Phila [illegible] 
Miss Ann Young 5th Apr 1799
Sir,
Som [illegible] after our coming here I took the lib [illegible] writing to you agreeable to you [illegible] t, but as I never was honored w [illegible] an answer, I am app [illegible] it [illegible] take advantage of a Gentleman of my acquaintance going to Philadelphia, to inform you, that shortly after our coming to this town which was early in Oct. My Brother took a front store and commenced business in the Spirit and Grocery line, while We took lodgings in the neighborhood.
About 2 mo [illegible] ago My sister who came over with my brother, got married to a very decent young man, and is now in her own house.
Baltimore notwithstanding being a h [illegible] y large town, falls far short of Philadelphia,  It may be owing to my not having many acquaintances, that I cannot sheak much of the sociably of this place,  In short the contrast between [illegible] I know has and those I had the [illegible] being acquainted within Pila.  app [illegible] great for my eyes that.  I believe I can [illegible] en [illegible] do them as much just as they really [illegible] rve
My brother [illegible] the greatest part of the winter has been so [illegible] ngly affected with the Rheumatism [illegible] t is [illegible] better. Otherways we have enjoyed perfect health.
I hope you will condescend to write to us and let me know how all the family are.  I need not say I hope how much of their welfare.  Write rejoice me  have the goodness to give my respectful compliments to Miss Maria Hodge; to Mr. Andrew Hodge & his family & to Doctor Green.  And if were not imposing too much trouble on You, I [illegible] would also beg to be remembered to Mr. Hargard family for long will the remembrance of  the kindness I experienced from you Mr Hodges and the Characters I have named leave a grateful impression on the mind of 
Your Most Obedt Obt Servt
Ann Young
Fells Point 5 April 99
P.S.  oblige me with a [illegible] to the care of [illegible] Nelson & Co. No. 72 Market Street
