---
authors:
- George Washington
collection_id: 967
collections:
- Alexander Hamilton Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:30:47+00:00'
day: '10'
description: Washington provides his suggestions for altering the plan for dividing Virginia into military divisions and sub-divisions.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1799041090101'
omeka_image_id: 19367
images:
- b15b19b620576ad0ac62a18e9b9cf994b0e10229.jpg
month: '04'
notable_items:
- design of dividing the State of Virginia into divisions or sub-divisions
- headquarters
- convenience of the recruiting service
- names
- alterations
- map of Virginia
- headquarters
- navigation
- supplies
- provisions
- point of centrality
- General Lee's absenses
- election of representatives to Congress
- letters to Colonels Parker and Bentley
- safe conveyance from Richmond
- Post Office
- commission
- dissatisfaction of all
- state of suspense
notable_locations:
- Mount Vernon
- rendezvous
- new counties
- Hobbs-hole
- Bowling Green
- 8th rendezvous
- Caroline County
- Fairfax & Loudon Counties
- Fairfax and Fauquier Counties
- Alexandria
- Prince William County
- Dumfries
- Yorktown
- Williamsburg
- Northumberland Courthouse
- Westmoreland or Richmond Courthouse
notable_persons:
- Alexander Hamilton
- George Washington
- General Lee
- Bushrod Washington
- General Morgan
- Colonel Carrington
omeka_id: 67192
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Alexander Hamilton
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Mount Vernon
title: Dividing the State of Virginia into Divisions and Sub-Divisions
year: '1799'
---



Private  [in another hand:]  p. 201 218                                 220
Mount Vernon 10th April 1799
[in another hand:]  93
My dear Sir,
I have received your letter of the 27.th ult.o, enclosing a deisgn of dividing the State of Virginia into Divisions, & Subdivisions, for the head quarters of the Rendezvouses in each; asking my opinion of the proper distribution of them, for the convenience of the Recruiting Service.
The Grand division of the State, I conceive to be well allotted -- and with the following alterations, the subdivision of it may be so like wise: but of the latter, I can speak with no precision, because of the number of New Counties which have been established, the situation of which I know not,and even the names of some were unknown to me before.
The alterations I propose, are as follow-- 1.st to make Hobbs-hole, instead of the Bolling Green, the 8th Rendezvous (refering to the plan you sent me) - because, as you will perceive by the Map of Virginia, Caroline County is the uppermost in that subdistrict, and the 
Bolling
[in another hand:]  221
Bolling Green lyes at the upper corner of the said County. -- 2.d Let Fairfax & Loudoun Counties (which were formerly one) form a subdivision in place of Fairfax & Fauquier, which are seperated by other Counties. Alexandria, or ? Leeburgh may be the head quarters of that Rendezvous.  The first is (comparatively) large & populous, & on Navigation, -- the other is 40 miles above navigation, & a small village -- both unhealthy, and well supplied with provisions &c.a --3.d Prince William and Fauquier ought to be annexed, instead of Prince William & Loudoun, which join at the extreme corners only.  Dumfries in Prince William, or Fauquier Court H.o might be the Rendezvous. The first is on Navigation; the latter 40 miles above, & more central. -- 4.th York Town is more in the centre of the 6.th subdivision than Williamsburgh; & 5th, Northumberland Court House is too low for the 9.th subdivision; either Westmoreland or Richmond Court Houses in point of centrality, would be more eligable.
General Lee's absences from home, canvassing for the ensuing Election of Representatives to Congress, and an indisposition with which he has (as I have lately heard) been siesed [?], 
from
[in another hand:]  p. 201                                                     222
from it, has been, I presume, the cause of your not having received an answer to your letter; for I am certain Mr. Bushrod Washington w.d have left it at his house as he returned home, agreeably to his promise to me.
Your letters to Colonels Parker and Bently I have forwarded by the Post; the 1.st under Cover to General Morgan, to whom Parker is a neighbour; the other to Colo Carrington who will be able to give it a safe Conveyance from Richmond; to the Post Office in which, it must have proceeded.
Not an Officer in this State (that has come to my knowledge) has yet received his Commission, to the great dissatisfaction of all, & relinquishment of many; who would no longer remain in a state of suspence and idleness.
With great truth, I remain
My dear Sir
Your Affect.e Hble Servant
G.oWashington
Maj.r Gen.l Hamilton
General Washington
April 10, 1799
[in another hand:]  Genl Wa
General Washington
April 10. 1799
