---
authors:
- Samuel Hodgdon
collection_id: 713
collections:
- Samuel Hodgdon Letterbook, Philadelphia, Pa., Arsenal, 1798-99.
created: '2018-07-16T14:31:22+00:00'
day: '21'
description: Reports plan that business of providing stores is to take one distinct branch of service, overseen by the Superintendent of Military Stores. The Purveyor's 3 assistants will take account of
  supplies for the quartermaster, the commissary, and the military stores. Outlines responsibilities for the clerks and storekeepers. Suggests role of deputy purveyor and deputy superintendent of stores
  to provide for each army. Outlines accountability for posts, forts, and garrisons. Posts will be supplied under contract. Expresses concern about such small posts which would not warrant a full-time storekeeper.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1799052128055'
omeka_image_id: 10838
images:
- cc45cbf3981a1e61ed10a459299204f879b82781.jpg
- f0e6c87146f05a34009a4f3a400c6e044140cf97.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- Stores
- Receipts
- Supplies
notable_locations:
- Intendant's Office
- Posts
- Forts
- Garrisons
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Tench Francis
- Oliver Wolcott, Jr.
- John Wilkins
- Superintendent of Military Stores
- Clerks
- Storekeepers
- Deputy Purveyor
- Deputy Superintendent
- Inspector of the Army
omeka_id: 68002
page_start: '450'
num_pages: '2'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Intendant's Office
title: Outlines Administrative Responsibilities for Purevyor, Superintendent, Clerks, Assistants, and Deputies for Military Stores
year: '1799'
---



450
Intendant's Office, 21st May 1799
Sir,
By the plan proposed the business of providing Stores is to constitute one distinct branch of service, and that of issuing another.  The Purveyor, and chiefs of the Treasury and War Departments are charged with procuring all supplies. --
The superintendant of Military Stores to superintend the issue of all supplies -
The three assistants allowed the Purveyor are to take cognizance of all supplies in the Quarter Master, Commissary of Provisions and Military Stores Departments. The three principal Clerks allowed the Superintendant of Military Stores are to superintend the issues of each of the above mentioned branches, aided by necessary Store Keepers - thus far the plan provides generally - 
The Purveyor to have a Deputy with each Army to procure the supplies necessary with the Army - 
The Superintendant of Military Stores shall have with each Army a Deputy with three assistants to superintend the issues of supplies.  Thus the receipts and expenditures with the Armies are completely provided for; But Posts, Forts and Garrisons are not embraced.  
It is presumed that Posts where Troops are stationed will be furnished with provisions by contract, the abstracts for these being certified monthly by the respective Commanding Officers is conclusive and needs no further account - May not the Contractor be engaged to furnish such other small supplies as the Posts may need.  The requisitions may be made by the Commanding Officers, and the articles received by a Conductor of Stores to be appointed, and placed at the Post to receive the more important requisitions for Military supplies, which it will be made his duty to transmit from time to time to the Superintendant of Stores;
451
to receive them when sent to his post, and account for their regular issue.  It is not intended to appoint Conductors of Military Stores to every petty Post, for many of them will not find employ for such an Officer for an eighth part of his time; nor would so small a quantity of Stores requisite for them warrant the expense - yet it is desirable at all times to know the whole state and disposition of the Stores belonging to the United States.  Suppose the Conductors are appointed to such Posts only as contain either for defence or Deposite a considerable quantities of Stores; and the others be put under the immediate charge of the Officers commanding, with such additional pay as may be equal to the service, would not the end in view be answered?  I can suggest but one other way to compass what we have in view, and that is by making it the duty of the Inspector of the Army to know and report the state of the Posts & Garrisons, as well as the appointments with the Army.  
With respectful consideration, I am, Sir, your most obedient Servant
Samuel Hodgdon
James McHenry Esqr Secretary of War
