---
authors:
- Ebenezer Stevens
collection_id: 773
collections:
- Miscellaneous Letters Received by the Fourth Auditor, Jan 12, 1795-Dec 31, 1897. (RG217) (M1187)
created: '2018-07-16T14:31:31+00:00'
day: '29'
description: Requests to be supplied with every article of clothing, quarter masters, and military stores that can be delivered. Encloses a copy of Alexander Hamilton's letter on the subject of supplies.
doc_types:
- Letterbook
document_number: '1799052980001'
omeka_image_id: 15517
images:
- 5be77caac6e7f1083c6c06753790c76a0f04a6ef.jpg
- 5d72b2f47997076f74b94afdbb88e02b6895c7f2.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- supply
- clothing
- quartermaster stores
- military stores
- store
- correspondence
- supplies
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Seat of Government
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Ebenezer Stevens
- Secretary of War
- Major General Alexander Hamilton
- Quartermaster General
- clerk
- Clothier General
- Commissary of Military Stores
note: Cited in Hodgdon to Stevens, 05/31/1799.
omeka_id: 68276
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '2'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Concerning military stores and clothing
year: '1799'
---



Colonel Ebenezer Stevens
29th May 1799
Recd 31st 
[stamped] NEW YORK MAY 
Samuel Hodgdon Esqr 
Philadelphia
Saml Hodgdon Esqr                  44
New York 29 May 1799
Sir
It is really necessary that you advise with the Secry at War to Supply me with evr'y Article of Cloathing, Quarter Masters & Military Stores, to be delivered as occasion may require to the order of Genl. Hamilton who informs me he shall look to me to furnish all articles in the aforementioned departments - and has directed me to correspond with the Heads of these Several Departments at the Seat of Government on the Subject of Supplies being made me.  
You will oblige me by Suggesting to the Secry at War, the propriety of the Qr. Master Genl. directing a Store to be provided in this plan to deposit the Stores, and that I be allow'd a person to act as Clerk, in transacting the business of Receiving & Delivering the Same.
Remain with my best respects to your Lady & family
Your mst Hble St 
Ebenr Stevens 
P.T.O.
New York 24 May 1799
Copy of Genl. Hamilton letter on the subject of Supplies, to be made by me,
Sir
I understand from the Secry of War that in Capacity of Agent for the War Department, I am to look to you for the Duties usually performed by the QrMaster Genl. & to the Genl. Commissary of Military Stores I shall look to you accordingly for this Service.  I shall direct all Returns relating to the proper object, to be made to you, & you are to attend to procuring & forwarding such as are required, with propriety. With this View you will open a Correspondence with the proper officers to the Seat of Government.  The present system is that Tench Francis Esqr Purveyor of Supplies, procures all articles in the several branches of of Supplies, which are placed by him in the disposition of Saml Hodgdon Esqr as Superintendent of Military Stores - who is to oversee all the issues of the articles.  I believe the Qr Master Genl is to take his Station at the Seat of Government & is to be the Auxiliary of those offices.  
It is expected that the great mass of Supplies will be procured & furnished by the immediate Agency of the Officers above mentioned - and that you will only incidently be called upon to provide - But you will have to make application for the Supplies which will be wanted at the different stations & [posts?]
of the Army, & to see that they are punctually and expeditiously furnished by those whose province it is to do so; Per this purpose you will forward to them ye Returns - which you shall receive, first taking quick Abstracts from them as will enable you to Judge how far they have been complied with - This points out the general service expected from you.  
I shall consider count fully upon your diligence & zeal, and if not in the first Instance, at least eventually, I shall confide that a Compensation adequate to what shall appear to be the extent of your trouble & responsibility will be made.  
I am &c
Signed Alexder Hamilton
To E Stevens -
