---
authors:
- Samuel White
collection_id: 569
collections:
- CA NJ Letters
created: '2018-07-16T14:32:18+00:00'
day: '02'
description: White cited his motivation as gaining recruits not personal gain for allegations of recruiting men while intoxicated.  Detailed account of incident.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1799070290001'
omeka_image_id: 11940
images:
- 6dae186f064a44a5848a405e3fe31f25daa32b22.jpg
- 23d486c3a01929b154b3a16cc26d44a575770496.jpg
- 9f94c20e3eef752b6d4e2d8668a5ca45b364d0ae.jpg
- da1e2ecd390ded5d33a0a0158c7080fbbc3aa6d9.jpg
- b8f6359017707b1bc56e8e9ab7678b21301acef3.jpg
- cb88afc2936ca27a261fdc729f70fd83151c5920.jpg
- 876d726bf9b3c8e25ccd671a1b2dc66af51a0d1d.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- intoxication
- recruiting
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- Alexander Hamilton
- Sam White
- recruits
omeka_id: 69233
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '7'
recipients:
- Alexander Hamilton
repositories:
- 'Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey: Alexander Library'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Complaints Lodged Against White
year: '1799'
---



Philadelphia July 2d 1799
Sir,
The Secretary at War yesterday informed me that complaints against me as a recruiting Officer had been lodged before him, by two young men of the names of Waller & Lauk. If I have done anything that may even appear to be wrong, it was from my great anxiety for the promotion of the recruiting service, and not from any prospects of gain, my circumstances are not such as require it, and I am proud that my temper is above it. the allegations against me as well as I could understand the Secretary are that I had enlisted Waller & Lauk when intoxicated, and that I have taken their bond for one hundred Dollars each for their discharge - as to the first charge..They were not enlisted by me
but by my Second Lieutenant, 'tho I know them to have been perfectly sober; because they were enlisted early in the day, and were with me several times in the morning talking on the subject. The Justice who swore them is a respectable man, his certificate can be had on the subject - as to the second charge - the day after a Brigade meeting in the County of Sussex, where Waller & Lauk enlisted, when we came to collect the new Recruits, to march them to Dover; we found these two had absented themselves. I called the next day where I had been informed they resided in search of them; but they were not to be found. I then went on to Dover, and four days afterwards a recruiting Sergeant I had left in Sussex came up, and informed me, that Waller & Lauk wished to be off -  that they had offered him eighty or one hundred Dollars each to get them off; and swore they would die rather than go into the army.
I was extremely at a loss how to proceed - unacquainted with the business myself I consulted several respectable characters in Dover, who advised me as I had then nearly raised my company, to discharge them, on condition they would furnish two or three substitutes each or pay money enough to procure them - that this had been the practice during the former war, and that four years past a Capt. Wells recruiting for the Western army in Dover had done so - but I could find no authority given me to discharge a person who had been sworn, and determined to pursue another tact - I accordingly wrote each of them a note, and in order to induce them to come to Dover, held out an idea that they might be possibly discharged on the terms therein mentioned. This had the effect, and they accordingly came to Dover. I was then in hopes of persuading them to stay, and used every argument in my power, but to no purpose. I saw it would be
impossible to detain them without keeping them constantly under guard; for which I was very unprepared, having no arms or guard house - the great object was then to manage them in away as to present their leaving the Country, by holding out the idea of their being perhaps discharged, (on form[undecipherable]) until I could write to the Colonel, (which I intended to do from this place) and know who had the power of discharging them, or until the company should be ordered to march; at which time (having no suspicions) they might be easily taken. They would - I believe have given their bonds for any sum to have been discharged, but I told them it was out of the question at that time - that I would however take their bond to W. Cardwell by Second Lieutenant and myself provided W. Hazzard (a juror who had enlisted, but who I found then too deaf to serve) would enter with them. This was as I considered the best security against their desertion; 'tho they were not told so; and the business was managed as if they would be discharged in order to keep them in spirits
and at hand. Mr. Hazzard lived in the same neighbourhood, and was very intimate with them. I supposed his enterey in the bond would induce him to keep a watch over them. I could have no possible prospect of recovering the money from them as I knew they were both under age (neither of them I believe nineteen years old) and consequently the Instrument void. My conduct as a recruiting Officer has I know given universal satisfaction, of which I can produce the most respectable testimony in Delaware. W. Mr.[undecipherable] was I believe present when this business was managed and understood it. Having left the Bar with flattering prospects to enter the army from motives worthy an American, - having used the most indefatigable exertions in the recruiting business, so as to enlist
between fifty and sixty men in six weeks, and spend more than one hundred and eighty Dollars, that I never expected to have returned and conscious of the purity of my intentions I feel Sir, with the keenest - sensibility this attempt to injure me. The author of it I have little doubt is a certain democratic Lawyer in the County of Sussex. It has m my brightest ambition not only to have the best but the first raised Company in the twelve Regiments to accomplish this most desirable object, I was ready when I entered the service to make any pecuniary sacrifice. I have taken the liberty to submit to you this candid, and hasty statement, least your suspicions might for a moment rest on my conduct. I shall return tomorrow
to Dover when I shall be extremely anxious to hear from you on this business so interesting to me as a Gentleman and an Officer.
Your Most obedt. & very humble Servt.
Saml White
[undecipherable strike-through]
Genl Hamilton
