---
authors:
- Samuel Hodgdon
collection_id: 713
collections:
- Samuel Hodgdon Letterbook, Philadelphia, Pa., Arsenal, 1798-99.
created: '2018-07-16T14:32:22+00:00'
day: 09
description: As Intendent of Stores appointed by Congress, he outlines his duties to oversee the military stores. Seeks to comply with the requisition to be aware of all people involved with military stores
  but worries that the size of such a task is impossible. Questions who acts as his deputies for assistance. Is anxious to perform duties but needs to have means to accomplish them
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1799070928055'
omeka_image_id: 10838
images:
- 735b23c9df67833267980fd7b98d68d3d701fa4c.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- Military Stores
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Department of War
notable_persons:
- James McHenry
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Deputies
omeka_id: 69389
page_start: '496'
recipients:
- James McHenry
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Expresses Concern about Appointed Duties; Requests Assistance
year: '1799'
---



496
Philadelphia 9th July 1799
Sir,
I have received your letter of the 6th instant. I conceive, Sir, my duty as Intendant of Stores is so clearly pointed out in the Act of Congress under which I received my appointment, that no misunderstanding as to the services expected from one could possibly happen.. The Section runs thus - "That there shall be employed an Officer whose duty it shall be (under the direction of the Department of War) to superintend the receiving, safekeeping, & distribution of the Military Stores of the United States; and to call to account all persons to whom the same may be entrusted." Without enquiring whether the act justifies your expectations relative to my services, I shall observe on the utter impossibility of a compliance with them. In what way am I to possess the information necessary to form an estimate of the kinds & quantities of articles proper for the Army & Military Establishments in addition to the stock which should always be in the public Stores. To comply with the second requisition, in a manner satisfactory to my own mind, and on which I would risque my responsibility my whole time would be employed, surely this cannot be meant. In answer to the third requisition I observe that I am at a loss to know who is meant by my deputies having never appointed one of any description myself, and having no knowledge of such.
497
such appointments by any other person.
I am willing and desirous to render all the services in my power, but I cannot consent to undertake any duties, which I know I cannot under circumstances perform. The work I am already engaged in is more than sufficient to engross my whole time with the help employed, and the correct completion of it is of vast importance to the United States. These ideas naturally flow from a perusal of your letter, and are respectfully expressed as an answer to it.
I am Sir
Your most obt. Servant
Samuel Hodgdon
James McHenry Esqr.
