---
authors:
- James McHenry
collection_id: 976
collections:
- John Adams Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:32:47+00:00'
day: '30'
description: Informs Pinckney that the officers he recommended for the 5th Regiment have all been appointed, and sent notifications of that fact; at Pinckney's request, McHenry encloses duplicates of those
  letters of appointment.  Promises to send a recommendation for a replacement officer to the president, as well as Lt. Col. Smith's recommendation for a regimental surgeon.  Grants permission to Pinckney
  to travel with his wife to Rhode Island to restore her health, if Pinckney makes arrangements to avoid material injury to the service in his absence.  McHenry will also bring this matter to the president's
  attention.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1799073000101'
omeka_image_id: 20445
images:
- 06677474b38dc6490b12284228c3917b3399d626.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- letters of appointment
- list of candidates
- recommendations
- illness
- health
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Bufort
- Maryland
- Rhode Island
notable_persons:
- Charles C Pinckney
- James McHenry
- officers
- 5th Regiment
- President
- Charles Jones Jenkins
- Edward Croft
- Smith
- surgeon
- Captain Taylor
- Archibald Lee
- Thomas Sim Lee
- Governor of Maryland
- Mrs. Pinckney
note: Enclosed in McHenry to Adams, 07/31/1799.
omeka_id: 69928
page_start: '6'
recipients:
- Charles Cotesworth Pinckney
repositories:
- Massachusetts Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Regarding Officer & Surgeon Appointments for 5th Regiment, & Pinckney's Request for Family Leave
year: '1799'
---



I 116
War Department 30 July 1799
Sir.  
I received by this mornings post your letter of the 16th of July inst. 
The letters of appointment for the officers of the 5th Regiment (which is composed intensely of those you recommended) were transmitted to them respectively on the same day, and all the care that was possible taken, that they should not fail of their destinations.  It will be a proper precaution however what you advise:  I have therefore directed duplicates to be made out, and will inclose them to you the next mail.  
I shall take an early occasion to lay before the President Charles Jones Jenkins of Beaufort to fill the place made vacant by the refusal of Mr. Edward Croft.  
The peculiarly strong terms
I 166a
in which Lt. Col Smith speaks of Doct. [Elias Mason?] as Surgeon for the 5th Regiment, cannot fail to create a prepossession in his favour.  It is not in my power, at this moment to look into the list of candidates and examine that recommendations for this office; I cannot therefore say any thing positive as to the result; except, that, unless weighty reasons oppose, I shall be happy to forward the Colonels wish by submitting his name to the President.
It has happened, that the vacancy in Captain Taylors company was filled previous to the receipt of your letter, by the appointment of Mr. Archibald Lee, a son of Ths Sim Lee Esqr late Governor of the State of Maryland and a very worthy man.  This young gentleman will, I expect soon join the troop.
And now my Dear Sir, permit me to assure you of the real concern I feel at your information of Mrs. Pinckney's illness.  Should it be found necessary, which I hope it will not for her to undertake a voyage to Rhode Island, to re establish her health, I do not see, how under such circumstances, and considering the respectful regard I must feel for Mrs. Pinckney, I could possibly raise any objection to your accompanying her; trusting to your knowledge of the situation of our affairs, as to prevent the service from suffering materially by your absence, and upon your returning as soon as her health will admit.  I shall immediately communicate the subject to the President, with the urgency which has induced me to anticipate a permission which I am sure he would not refuse.  I
I 116 C
I request you to present to Mrs. Pinckney my sincere wishes for her speedy recovery.
With great respect I have the honour to be Sir, Your most obt. James McHenry
Major General Charles Cotesworth Pinckney
I 117
War Department 24 June 1799
Sir
I am anxious that the appointments of a Surgeon and Mates should take place with as little delay as possible.  I have therefore to request that you would be pleased to select from the persons whose names are contained in the enclosed list a suitable person to fill the Office of Surgeon and two others for those of Mate in the Regiment under your command and transmit their names that I may lay them before the President for his approbation.  Should you know any person whom you wish to recommend in preference to those whose names are transmitted, you will be pleased to inform me.  
I am Sir Your Mo. Ob. Serv. 
Signed
James McHenry
Lieutt Coll Richd Hunnewell and the same to Lieutt Coll Nath. Rice
[4-column table] Headers:  Names of Applicants: Place of Abode: Grade applied for: By whom Recommended]
Caleb Marsh: Hingham: Surgeon of a Regt: Genl. Lincoln, Col: Rice
Oliver Mann: Castine (maine): ditto: [blank]
Seth H. Rogers: Hadley: ditto: Wm. B. Hall, Saml. W. Dana
Saml. Morey Junr: Norton: ditto: [blank]
Joshua Thomas: Boston: ditto: John Warren Aaron Dexter
Jonathan Learned: Oxford: ditto: Thos Babbett; Salem Town, & a member of Phisicians
Joseph Manning: Ipswich: ditto: Joseph Sevacy, Thomas Burnhgm
Amos Winship: Boston: ditto: J. Warren
Walter Hunnewell: Watertown: ditto: Marshall Spring
Luther Starnes: Newton: ditto: General Brooks
Josiah Dwight: Belehertown: ditto: Dwight Foster. Dr. Babbett mate
Benjamin Walker: Bradford: ditto: Jona Allen, Medical Society of Vermont
Charles Blake: [blank]: ditto: Colo. N. Rice.
Thomas Walch: Boston: Surgeon of the Castle: [blank]
John Warren: ditto: Supt. Medl. Dept.:[blank]
Applicants for Surgeons Mates on the other side.
[4-Column Table] Headers: Names:Residence:Grade:By whom Reommended
Joshua Frost: Springfield: Surgeons Mate: Samuel Lyman
+Eben.r Lawrence: Medford: ditto: Genl. Brooks
Daniel Eaton: Halifax (Nova Scotia): ditto: Stephen Peabody
Josiah Sanbourn: Bangor (Maine): ditto: Elijah Skinner, Jno. Blake
Samuel Carrier: Hennebeck Co. ditto: ditto: Daniel Coney

List of Applicants for Surgeons & Surgns Mates from the State of Massachusetts.
Rec. in the Secy of 21st July
