---
authors:
- Alexander Hamilton
collection_id: 576
collections:
- 'John M. Brown & Preston Brown Papers, #105.'
created: '2018-07-16T14:33:26+00:00'
day: '07'
description: Notifies Adams that General James Wilkinson, lately in New York to discuss the affairs of the military in the west, is coming to Braintree to pay respects to Adams.  Offers his opinion of Wilkinson,
  which he assures Adams will concur with that of Washington.  Informs Adams of Wilkinson's fine service record, countering any opinion of Anthony Wayne by affirming that Wayne "was not his [Wilkinson's]
  friend."  Praises Wilkinson, recommends him for promotion, and states that Wilkinson will be offended if he is not promoted.  Concludes by saying that the hard things said by some about Wilkinson have
  never been proven.
doc_types:
- Extract of Letter
document_number: '1799090790001'
omeka_image_id: 11617
images:
- 356aa9ccd27449a09ab301ec2412ce16f209a4e3.jpg
- 1f95be5d91a46f6a6979cbdc00af37427fc61cd0.jpg
- edbd0d913d07853963a4247055076fef810807f3.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- Revolutionary War
- rank
- promotion
notable_locations:
- New York
- Braintree
notable_persons:
- John Adams
- Major General Alexander Hamilton
- General Wilkinson
- General Washington
- Secretary of War
- General Wayne
omeka_id: 70916
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- John Adams
repositories:
- 'Sterling Library: Manuscripts and Archives'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Notification of the Record & Qualities of General Wilkinson & Recommendation for His Promotion
year: '1799'
---



Extract of a letter from Genl.[?] Hamilton to President Jn. Adams

Extract of a Letter from Major General Hamilton dated New York September 14th 1799, to President Adams.
Sir,
General Wilkinson who has been some weeks in this City in Consequence of an invitation having for object the readjustment of our Wes- tern Military affairs, is about to make a journey to Braintree to pay his respects to you, on such an occasion I hope it will not be thought improper should I address you on the Subject of this offer since what I shall say I know will accord with the Views of Generl Washington and with what I have reason to believe has already been sugges- ted to you with his support, by the Secretary of War
You are apprized Sir, that General Wilkinson served with distinction in our revolu- tionary War, and acquired in it the Rank of Briga General, that for many years, since that war he has been in the military service of the Govern -ment with the same Rank, in which Rank he for some time had the Chief Command of the Army. That he has also served with dis- tinction in this latter period, General Wayne /who was not his friend/ has in one instance within my knowledge very amply testified.
The decided impression on my mind, as the result of all that I have heard or Known of this officer is that he is Eminently qualified as to Talents, is brave, Enterprizing, active, & diligent, warmly animated by the genuine spirit of his profession and devoted to it. The recent communications be-tween us have satisfied me more than ever that he is well entitled to the character I have just given him.
So circumstanced & so qualified all mili-tary usage & analogy, give the General a very strong claim to promotion. His Sensibility will suffer with reason if he has it not, and it would require more than usual Patriotism and Magnanimity to preserve his from Discontent and disgust. I as well as others have heard hard things said of the General but I have never seen the Shadows of proof, and I have been myself too much the victim of Obloquy to listen to detraction unsupported by Facts.
