---
authors:
- Richard Parker
collection_id: 739
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:35:02+00:00'
day: '01'
description: Chart showing military stores on hand and delivered since 1st of June 1798 to January 1800 at Carlisle. Included are blunderbusses, tomahawks, and pikes.
doc_types:
- Document Signed
document_number: '1800010180001'
omeka_image_id: 6159
images:
- 56f8c9bc91c7520b3396476befe3374bb326a04e.jpg
month: '01'
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Carlisle
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Richard Parker
omeka_id: 73240
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Carlisle
title: Military Stores On Hand & Delivered at Carlisle
year: '1800'
---



Return from
Richard Parker of
Carlisle, of his issues 
from 10th June 1798
to the 1st January
1800
Entered 13th March 1800
[Initials, perhaps JB or P for Parker?]
Exd
[Note text appears upside down]
Sam.l Hodgdon Esq.
Philadelphia
1 1/2 oz    way    75
Return of Military Store on hand & Delivered
[column headings written sideways 12 columns total, 4 columns for each item]
[blank for first column]  N.o Weight Delivered [blank for fifth column] N.o Weight Delivered [blank for ninth column] N.o Weight Delivered
Iron Cannon 4 Pd. 1  [blank] [blank] Old Halberts 2[8?]  [blank] [blank] Plasterers trowels 12 [blank] [blank]
Do not finish'd  1 [blank] [blank] Do. Spantoons 2 [blank]\ [blank] Hand saws of sorts 9 [blank] [blank]
Set of Drag ropes 1 [blank] [blank] New Cartrack boxes & bells 1649 [blank] [blank] Shovels 7 [blank] [blank]
Ladles & worms of sizes 8 [blank] [blank] Old Do. no belts 1373 [blank] [blank] Brickmakers Flasks 12 [blank] [blank]
Spunges 4 [blank] [blank] Do gun slinges 13 [blank] [blank] Palms for Do. 2 [blank] [blank]
Lint sticks 4 [blank] [blank] Large Medicine Chest 1 [blank] [blank] Coopers Adze 1 [blank] [blank]
Port fire 5 [blank] [blank] Old Gun Barels 925 [blank] 2 Shoemakers lasts 138 [blank] [blank]
Spunge heads of sizes 118 [blank] [blank] Old bayonet belts 413 [blank] [blank] Last-makers tools 1 [blank] [blank]
Ladle heads Do. 17 [blank] [blank] Do Gun locks 1801 [blank] [blank] Box with armory 1 [blank] [blank]
Rhamer heads Do 28 [blank] [blank] Walnut Gun stocks 913 [blank] [blank] Shoemaker & Ladles [undecipherable] 39 [blank] [blank]
Tompiens[?] Do. 5 [blank] [blank] New French Gun locks 447 [blank] [blank] Branding Irons 8 [blank] [blank]

Blocks of sizes for       [this line connected to the next by a } on the right:] [blank] [blank] [blank] New Duch Do. 487 [blank] [blank] Sputulas Shod with Iron 2 [blank] [blank]
Grape and Case Shott     650 [blank] [blank]  Pikes with handles 506 [blank] [blank] Old Iron Machine 1 [blank] [blank]
Gun Cariage not finish'd 1 [blank] [blank] Do for L. Horsemen no Handles 310 [blank] [blank] [4?] Boxes pistol Catriges 3024 [blank] [blank]
Sides for Do.  26 [blank] [blank] Sockets & hinges for Do.  310 [blank] [blank] Stone Masons tools of sorts 24 [blank] [blank]
Old Elevating Screws 3 [blank] [blank] Setts of Bullet Moulds 2 [blank] [blank] Powder mulers 2 [blank] [blank] 
Do. Wall Peices  12 [blank] [blank] Bellows for Traveling Forge 3 [blank] [blank] Wagon and Gun boxes 287 [blank] [blank]
Do. Blunderbuses 20 [blank] [blank] Stake Anvils of sizes 6 [blank] [blank]  Brick bankds   7 [blank] [blank]
Do Damag'd Guns  840 [blank] [blank]  Machine for boring Gun Barals  1  [blank] [blank] Cariage wheels not shod 24 [blank] [blank]
Do Bayonets 163 [blank] [blank]  Old Grind stones 2 [blank] [blank] Do. shod 36 [blank] [blank]
Do Scaboards  763 [blank] [blank]  Hand-bill hooks  24 [blank] [blank]  Iron pistol & mortar  1 [blank] [blank]
Do. Broken swords  39 [blank] [blank]  Hand barrow - - 1 [blank] [blank]  Old writing Desk 1 [blank] [blank]
Do Scaboards for Do.   27 [blank] [blank]  Cutting Knives  7 [blank] [blank]  Do tin canteens 40  [blank] [blank] 
Do. Shott pouches  12 [blank] [blank] Shoemakers hammers  8 [blank] [blank]  Do. wooden 583 [blank] [blank]
Cylinders  4436 [blank] [blank]  Tin Camp Kettles  165  [blank] [blank] Tents 11 [blank] [blank]
[NOTE: Document is a continuation of the previous image, the leftmost column that is reproduced is cut off here, but appears intact on the previous image. Also, text was scanned upside down]
[text cut off by scanning] hand & Delivered since 1st of June 98 to Jany 1800 at Carlisle
[Note that this is a table with 12 columns, 4 columns for each item, only item and number are filled in for most.  There are horizontal lines before and after the headings row, and vertical lines that separate the columns from each other. The blank column entries are noted with blank below, and there is one or two marginal notes]
[Column headings are written sideways]
[blank] No. Weight Delivered [blank]  No. Weight Delivered [blank]  No. Weight Delivered [blank] 
[text cut off] trowels 12 [blank] [blank] Old Tin tubes Boxes 10 [blank] [blank] Damag'd Tubes 50 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] saws of sorts 9 [blank] [blank] Wooden malets 101 [blank] [blank] 37 Boxes Musquet Catriges [blank] [blank] 2 1 [marginal note:] Holen 8th October 1799
[text cut off] [undecipherable] 7 [blank] [blank] Pump Irons 1 [blank] blank] Fixed case shot 12 Pd. 4 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] makers Flasks 12 [blank] [blank] Stove plates of sizes 11 [blank] [blank] Do. Do. 9    18 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] for Do. 2 [blank] [blank] Fire buckets 50 [blank] [blank] Do. Do. 4 9 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] ers Adze 1 [blank] [blank] Pine Table 1 [blank] [blank] Do. Do. 3 26 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] akers lasts 138 [blank] [blank] Pair of Large scales 1 [blank] [blank] Fixed Grape shott 6 Pd. 6 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] makers tools 1 [blank] [blank] Do. small coper Do. 1 [blank] [blank] Do. Do. 3 11 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] ith Armory 1 [blank] [blank] Iron Weights 56 [above 56 is  text ll or lb with a double strikethrough] [blank] [blank] [blank] Round Shott 4 2095 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] aker & Ladles [undecipherable] 39 [blank] [blank] Do. Do. 28 [blank] [blank] [blank] Do. Do. 9 1681 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] ing Irons 8 [blank] [blank] Do. Do. 14 [blank] [blank] [blank] Do. Do. 12 122 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] las Shod with Iron 2 [blank] [blank] Do. Do. 7 [blank] [blank] [blank] Round shott strap'd 3 Pd. 252 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] on Machine 1 [blank] [blank] Do. Do 4 [this and next three lines are annotated together with a }, to the right of that is:] Coper Weights [and in next column, sideways:] Holen 8th October 1799 [blank] [blank] Not fixed in Case shott [blank] [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] pistol Catriges 3024 [blank] [blank] Do. Do 3 [see shared annotation noted in previous line] [blank] [blank] 12 4 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] Masons tools of sorts 24 [blank] [blank] Do Do. 1  Do. 1/2 [see shared annotation noted in previous 2 lines] [blank] [blank] Do. 9 29 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] mulers 2 [blank] [blank] Tomohawks with handles 1007 [blank] [blank] Do. 4 89 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] & Gun boxes 287 [blank] [blank] Do. no Handles 1019 [blank] [blank] Do. for Patterns 37 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] k bands 7 [blank] [blank] Brushes & wires 41 [blank] [blank] Not fix'd Grape shott [blank] [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] wheels not shod 24 [blank] [blank] Old Flints 1043 [blank] 500 Do. Do 12 32 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] hod 36 [blank] [blank] Drum rims & hoops 8 [blank] [blank] Do Do 9 114 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] pistol & mortar 1 [blank] [blank] 1 Box with forged G. Barels 105 [blank] [blank] Do. Do 6 31 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] riting Desk 1 [blank] [blank] Box of small Glass[?] [blank] [blank] [blank] Do. Do. 3 202 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] [indecipherable] Canteens 40 [blank] [blank] Bullet moulds for Hall 7. 3 [blank] [blank] Fuzees Drove 10 [undecipherable] 41 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] wooden 583 [blank] [blank] Small Do. 4 [blank] [blank] Paper Catriges [word inserted with caret above text:] bags of sizes  720 [blank] [blank]
[text cut off] ts 11 [blank] 10 Shades 99 [?scanning cut off bottom] [blank] 2 [? cut off] [undecipherable, text in bottom row was cut off when scanned]
[NOTE: Document is a continuation of part of another page. Part of the text is cut off on the left the top is clearly folded over, and the text appears upside down]
[Note that this is a table with 12 columns, 4 columns for each item, only item and number are filled in for most.  There are vertical lines that separate the columns from each other. The blank column entries are noted with blank below. At the end of the table is a statement of veracity and a signature, as noted below]

[text cut off] halls 23 [blank] [blank] New bags 60 [blank] [blank] Barrels of Do. 9 3672 [blank]
[text cut off] hatt 9 [blank] [blank] Old Do. 50 [blank] [blank] Teirces 7 6342 [blank]
[text cut off] ted knapsacks 11 [blank] [blank] Block tin paterns [blank] 42 [blank] Small Do. 4 2420 [blank]
[text cut off] Blankets 12 [blank] [blank] Arm Chest with Cartouch [blank] [blank] [blank] Antimony [blank] 300 [blank]
[text cut off] Do. 17 [blank] [blank] box leather [blank] 23 [blank] 36 sides Tan'd Leather [blank] 108 [blank]
[text cut off] es with handles 29 [blank] [blank] Old Gun furniture [blank] 719 [blank] Grape shott of sizes [blank] 52224 [blank]
[text cut off] without handles 50 [blank] 30 Iron furnace Doors [blank] 35 [blank] [Here this column ends and the statement of veracity begins, which is included at the end]
[text cut off] ks 3[undecipherable] [blank] [blank] Amber [blank] 312 [blank] 
I Do Certify this
to be a true return
of Military stores
Rich. Parker
Barracks. Jany. 1st 1800
[NOTE: Document is a continuation of part of another page. Part of the text is cut off on the left the top is clearly folded over, and the text appears upside down]
[Note that this is a table with 11 columns, 4 columns for each item, with the rightmost column cut off.  Only item and number are filled in for most.  There are vertical lines that separate the columns from each other. The blank column entries are noted with blank below. At the end of the table is a note, written sideways]
[Top line is partially cut off and unreadable]
[undecipherable] [undecipherable] [blank] [blank] Iron Do. 34 [blank] 3 Over halls 23 [blank]
Traveling Forge not finish'd 1 [blank] [blank] Damaged tin Do. 30 [blank] [blank] Neww hatt 9 [blank]
small bell 1 [blank] [blank] 10 Bundles of Knapsacks [blank] [blank] [blank] Painted knapsacks 11 [blank]
Back chains 7 [blank] [blank] each 24 unpainted 240 [blank] [blank] New Blankets 12 [blank]
[Note: middle item appears to be a continuation of previous middle entry]
Bayonet Locket not finish'd 1077 [blank] [blank] Pair of Shoes 1732 [blank] 2 [and underneath:] 14 Stolen Old Do. 17 [blank]
Hinges & hooks for Trav. forge 67 [blank] [blank] Musquets 163 [blank] [blank] Axes with handles 29 [blank]
Pump boxes 2 [blank] [blank] Ramrods 119 [blank] [blank] Do. without handles 50 [blank]
Mill Irons 4 [blank] [blank] Bayonets 60 [blank] [blank] Picks 38[?] [blank]
[Text following is written sideways]
Note
Leiut. Wolstoncrofft of the Artilery got the following Articles in March 99 which he Did not receit for when I was lying with my Leg broke
[check mark left of text] 2 Boxes of Musquet Catriges
[check mark with stroke across the stem] 9 tin Camt Ketles
[check mark with stroke across the stem] 9 Iron Do.
[check mark with stroke across the stem] 9 Axes
[check mark] 23 Pair Overhalls
