---
authors:
- John Torrey
collection_id: 405
collections:
- Fred Manning Collection of Documents from Various Series in RG217. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:35:59+00:00'
day: '25'
description: Torrey is a native of Boston who was in St. John's and Montreal. Recounts his service to the American troops after they captured St. Johns. Requests compensation for money spent and disbursed
  on behalf of the troops as well as for losses sustained.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1800032590501'
omeka_image_id: 17556
images:
- 21a82e9889102c06b544acae7f10404fcbb99cf1.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- siege
- hospital
- fort
- bake and brew
- occupation
- flour
- purchasing
- beef
- spirits
- money
- Revolutionary War
- losses
- suffering
- relief
- oath
notable_locations:
- Montreal
- Canada
- Franklin
- Norfolk County
- Massachusetts
- New England
- Boston
- St. Johns
- Quebec
- Albany
- Springfield
notable_persons:
- John Torrey
- Torry
- trader
- family
- British troops
- General Montgomery
- General Carlton
- Ethan Allen
- Haywood
- General Hazen
- General Wooster
- brother
- Major Joseph Torrey
- Jonas Clasker
- bakers
- General Washington
- army
- Deputy Quartermaster
- Colonel Hatch
- Colonel Pickering
- Lowell
note: Enclosed in Torrey to McHenry, 03/25/1800.
omeka_id: 74558
page_start: '4'
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: District of Massachustes
title: Memorial of John Torrey, Canadian Refugee
year: '1800'
---



AX N.<sup>o</sup>2
John Torrey [undecipherable]
Sworn to before Judge [undecipherable]
of Massachusetts 25 March 
1800

The Memorial of John Torry, late of the City of Montreal, Province of Canada, Trader but now resident in Franklin, in the County of Norfolk, in the State of Massachusetts, Bay, in New England. Respectfully represents that after residing more than two years in Canada, with a Family of Eight persons, whom I carried from Boston to Montreal, in order to avoid the Insults of the British Troops in that Town.-that, in the Summer after his arrival from Montreal, General Mongtommery beseig'd St. Johns in consequence of that Seige; Genl. Carlton order the Inhabitants of Montreal, to arm, and appear on the parade.  Mr. Eathan Allen came about the Same time and attacked the City.  I being on the Parade, was with the others, urged to go out, and fight Mr. Allen; which Order, myself, with Twenty Two others, absolutely refused; for which refusal, we were directly sent under Guard to the Hospital, untill the affray, with Allen was decided. We then, had the Liberty of the City, but refrained from going out of the Gates.  In that situation, I was detain'd untill Genl. Montgommory had subdued the Fort at St. Johns, and took possession of Montreal.  I then undertook for Messrs. Price & Haywood (Commissaries for Our Troops) to bake & brew for the Army, in which Occupation, I continued, untill, all the Flour, taken on the Lakes, and all they could procure; was expended.  I then was dilligently employed, in purchaseing Beef & Spirits &c by Request of the Commissaries - with my own hard money - which with the addition of One Hundred half [undecipherable], which I advanced them - in all, amounting to about four hundred pounds of the States Currency.  For which they obliged me to take paper Money at parr; when it was going at a depreciated, value of Three or Four for One.  I also, lent General Hazen, Four Hundred Dollars, in Specie, when he Commanded at Montreal, in the absence of Gen<sup>l</sup> Wooster  to Quebec -- And when the Spring 1776 opened, and General [Bergine?] obliged our Troops to retreat, I being then on business and for a few days before - at Albany - My late Brother Major Joseph Torry, of Hazer's Regiment -- M.<sup>r</sup> Jonas Clasker [undecipherable]

and 
241

and some others of my Friends, brought off my Family, from - Montreal to Albany - where I mett them, and had them conveyed to my former & natural Home, in Boston. --

I was during the Revolution; Acting Commisary to Col. Hazer's Regiment, on the Regiment's being ordered to clear a Road from boos' to Canada - I was also director of a Company of Barkers in Gen.<sup>l</sup> Washingtons Army, on white plains in the year 1778 - and Deputy Quarter Master at the Port at Springfield, under Col.<sup>o</sup> [Lubez?] Hatch - who was deputed by Col.<sup>o</sup> Pickering then Quarter Master General -- at the end of the War - my losses and suffering I submit to the Consideration of Congress through the Secretary at War, praying such relief <sup>as</sup> I may be thought worthy of, under the Act for the relief of the Refuges from the British Provinces of Canada & Nova Scotia, or any other law or principles of Equity. --

And as in duty bound shall ever pray
Jn:<sup>o</sup> Torrey

United States District of Masachusetts March the 25<sup>th</sup> 1800 Then John Torrey made Oath that the Facts set forth in the foregoing Memorial are all true --

J Lowell Judge of the District
Court of Mas<sup>a</sup> District --
