---
author_note: William Simmons
authors:
- William Simmons
collection_id: 768
collections:
- Miscellaneous Letters Sent by the Accountant of the War Department and the Second Auditor, Apr 14, 1795-May 5, 1886. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:36:03+00:00'
day: '31'
description: Richards notified of regulations respecting supplies and objects of special and extra expenses.  All to be furnished by contractors.  Rules regarding what can be provided by contractors.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1800033121055'
omeka_image_id: 22660
images:
- c11097b41b950940d9159dd8501655379c0b925d.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- expenses
- ration
- ardent spirits
- vinegar
- quarters
- transportation
- forage
- fuel
- straw
- stationary
- medical assistance
- quarters
- barracks
- subsistence of army
- prices
notable_locations:
- New York
- Bordenton New Jersey
notable_persons:
- Samuel Richards
- William Simmons
- contractors
- recruiting parties
- quarter master general department
- medical assistance
- general officer
- staff
- army
- hospital department
note: Notation in margin stated, "Copies of this letter were sent to the several contractors named on page 62."
omeka_id: 74655
page_start: '59'
recipient_note: Samuel Richards; Elias Dayton; William Colfax; Robert Colfax; Alexander Richards; James O'Hara; Dodridge Crocker; E & S House; Daniel Elam (via E Jackson).
recipients:
- Samuel Richards
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Descriptions of Regulations for Supplies Rendered by Contractors
year: '1800'
---



[Left Margin] Copies of this letter were sent to the several Contractors named Page 62.
March 31st 1800
Mr. Saml. Richards
Contractor New York
Sir
The Secretary of War has issued under date of the 1st Instt. Regulations respecting certain supplies and respecting objects of special & extra expence wherein are included the following which relate to supplies to be furnished by Contractors & which will govern you in your issues, agreeably to your Contract - vizt. -
"The several Contractors, besides rations including ardent Spirits and vinegar, shall only provide & furnish, Quarters, Transportation, Forage, Straw and Stationary, to recruiting parties where there is no appropriate officer of the Quarter Master General's department to furnish the same; and where there shall be no other provision for the purpose, Medical assistance. The quarters intended are those of a temporary kind - The power to provide them shall not extend [page] 60
to the building or repairing of Barracks. In what they furnish they shall govern themselves exclusively by the regulations which have been established by Law or by the War Department, and in cases to which no regulations apply, by the order of the Commanding Officer.
The following named regulations are enclosed for your govern* vizt.
"Regulations respecting certain supplies and respecting objects of special & extra expence"
"Regulations to be observed in the delivery & distribution of Fuell & Straw to the garrisons on the Sea Coast & Recruiting parties" -
"Regulations adopted respecting the allowance of Barracks or quarters to the Officers of the Army, and of Fuell to General Officers & Staff of the Army"-
It will be understood that all expenditures under the above & foregoing regulations are to be substantiated by regular returns of the Commanding Officer ordering the supplies definitely stating the number of Troops, whether officers, non commissioned officers or Privates for which they are required, and the period for which they are intended, if for Officers their names and grades, accompanied, if for articles purchased or supplies furnished, by the original bills of parcells, and receipts of the party from whom the purchase is made, rendered, with a General account Current, stating the amount expended under each head in the following order: for all rations supplied to be charged under the head of Subsistence of the Army stating the place where the rations were furnished, the number & price - quarters, Transportation, Fuell, Straw & Stationary under the head of Quarter Master Department- Medical assistance under the head of Hospital Department, and Forage garnished, under the head of Forage of the Army.
The accounts to be rendered at this office at the stipulated periods in the Contract, and where no times is fixed they must be rendered monthly.
I am &c W. S.
