---
authors:
- James McHenry
collection_id: 597
collections:
- 'MMC, McHenry, James: mm85004543'
created: '2018-07-16T14:36:36+00:00'
day: '07'
description: Letter from the Secretary of War to the President of the United States concerning appointments. Post script note from President regarding the content of the letter.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1800050700101'
omeka_image_id: 20089
images:
- f86da142d08debc43e6378883dbbaba116583645.jpg
- 6e9f1b5531a148f5f8d79b5f2daf1170e339dbdb.jpg
- 4acbcc9f14b39dfe4e611365dbea3a18e150b958.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- accommodation
- provisional appointment
notable_locations:
- War Department
notable_persons:
- John Adams
- James McHenry
- Williams
- Wheeling
- Wheland
- Tench Francis
- Waln
omeka_id: 75372
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- John Adams
repositories:
- 'Library of Congress: Manuscript Division'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Appointments
year: '1800'
---



The President
A note at the bottom of the Secretarys letter to him of the 7 May 1800 relative to Mr. Williams The President regrets exceedingly that Mr. Williams cannot be gratified on this occasion.  Mentions that he was proposed last summer for a Major of Artillery Inclosed paper from Mr. Williams and a Note from Mr. Waln
Recd 9 May 1800 
Mr Willilams
to the Pres U. S. May 9th 1800 filed [illegible]
War Department
7 May 1800
Sir 
I take the liberty to inclose an note from Mr Waln received this moment, by which it appears that Mr Whaling declines the accommodations you were pleased to direct me to propose.
I respectfully mention that I cannot forbear suggesting that Mr. Williams pretensions are in my opinion very great, and that the peculiar situation in which he has been placed by his provisional appointment under your directions may merit some attention.  It has [illegible] said to me, that should the President finally decide to appoint another person, it would be gratifying to him to be first nominated, and if appointed that he would immediately
after resign.  This is respectfully submitted to the Presidents consideration with the enclosed papers presented to me by Mr. Williams.  
I have the honour to be with perfect consideration 
Sir 
Your ob st
James McHenry
The P. has much [illegible] and regard [for?] Mr Williams and regrets [exceedingly?] that Mr. Williams cannot be [illegible] upon this
