---
authors:
- James McHenry
collection_id: 974
collections:
- James McHenry Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:36:45+00:00'
day: '15'
description: Mentions that the President has requested a meeting with the Heads of Departments to determine a time for the removal of offices from Philadelphia during the summer fever season. McHenry tells
  Stoddert that given his soon-to-come resignation, he will not need to be consulted on this issue.
doc_types:
- Draft Letter
document_number: '1800051500301'
omeka_image_id: 13772
images:
- 1c4e0a376cb09d732a186c6540b9469a64dd7cda.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- House
- meeting
- household
- offices
- books
- papers
- articles
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Baltimore
- War Office
notable_persons:
- Benjamin Stoddert
- James McHenry
- President
- John Adams
- Heads of Departments
note: In the hand of John Caldwell.
omeka_id: 75562
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Benjamin Stoddert
repositories:
- 'Clements Library: University of Michigan'
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: On the removal of offices from Philadelphia for the summer
year: '1800'
---



15 May 1800
Benjn Stoddert 
Removal of Offices
[Stamped:  Photocopied from original in William C. Clements Library, University of Michigan.  Permission of Library Direction required for reproduction, use, or publication.  Deposit of this copy in other institutions is strictly prohibited.]
War Dept. 
15 May 1800
Dr. Sir, 
I have to acknowlege the reciept of a note from you, this morning, informing me that the President requested you, to make his wishes known to me, and other Heads of Departments, that they would meet this evening at 7 OClock at his house, to fix upon a time for the removal of the Public Offices from Philadelphia.  
You will confer a particular obligation Sir If you will respectfully represent to the President - That having resigned the Office of Secretary of the Department of War - and my particular convenience does not require to be consulted, with respect to the time for removal of the offices comprehended in the War Department & That having my arrangements to make and execute, for the removal of my own household to Baltimore - I do not contemplate that any attention will be requisite on my part to the transportation of the books, papers and other articles, belonging to the War Office.  
I am Dr Sir Your [illegible]
Honble Benjn Stoddert
[Stamped:  Photocopies from Original in William L. Clements Library, University of Michigan.  Permission of Library Director required for reproduction, use, or publication. Deposit of this copy in other Institutions is strictly prohibited.]
