---
authors:
- James McHenry
collection_id: 810
collections:
- Correspondence (Letters Received, Letters Sent, and Accounts) of the Creek Factory, 1795-1814. (RG75)
created: '2018-07-16T14:36:55+00:00'
day: '22'
description: McHenry notifies Wright that the Act authorizing trading houses for exchange with Indian tribes has expired. The President will determine if trade should continue and the fate of the factories.
  McHenry notes that he has resigned the office of Secretary of War. He advises Wright to continue to submit accounts as soon as possible.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1800052200401'
omeka_image_id: 10071
images:
- fe2eed9fd65db5021b46c849b34bdcfe1f0718af.jpg
- 4eaca18fe7ff6796c590660459adfba1e7e8abd7.jpg
month: '05'
notable_items:
- factory
- trading houses
- resigned
- account
- statements
- forms
- explanation
- report
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Fort Wilkinson
- Creek Factory
- Georgia
- Oconee Factory
notable_persons:
- Edward Wright
- James McHenry
- President
- Congress
- Indian Tribes
- Secretary of War
- Secretary of the Treasury
- Comptroller of the Treasury
- Accountant of the War Department
- successor
- Assistant Storekeeper
omeka_id: 75715
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Edward Wright
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Expired Law Permitting Trading Houses
year: '1800'
---



1800 No. 4
Letter from Secry McHenry
dated 22nd March 1800
War Department 22d May 1800
Sir
The "Act for establishing Trading Houses with the 
Indian Tribes" passed the 18th April, 1796, being limited to the term
of two Years, and to the end of the next Session of Congress thereafter,
and no longer, expired on the 14th inst,, the day on which the late
Session of Congress ended, no Law having passed to receive the same.
It will of course rest with the President to continue
the Factories, on Trading-houses for trading with the Indians, or other-wise,
as to him shall seem proper, and, as I have resigned the Office
of Secretary of War, it will devolve on my Succession to take Order on the
Subject.
To a correct understandind of the actual Situation
of the Factory under your direction, the accounts & Statements I 
have heretofore received of you will be indispensable. You will prepare
& transmit them as soon as possible, and will also transmit Duplicates
of your Accounts to the Secretary of the Treasury. The Act itself 
requires that the Accounts of the Factories shall be made up half yearly,
and transmitted to the Secretay of the Treasury of the United
States, which Injunction it is requisite should in future be strictly
complied with, as well as the other requierments of the Law.
If you have not heretofore been furnished with dorms
for keeping and rendering your Accounts, wou will request the same 
from either the Comptroller of the Treasury or the Accountant of the
War Department; and if you have already been furnished with forms,
which to you appear to require Explanation in any particulars, you
will apply to the same Gentlemen for such Explanation.
I regret to inform you that I have not yet been able
to select a suitable character for an Assistant Storekeeper at the
Oconee factory. I shall however inform my Successor of the absolute
Necessity for one, & call his Attention specially to supply the vacancy.
I enclose a Copy of the Report of the Committee of
Congress on the Factories, with my Report thereon annexed.
I am Sir, Your obt. Servt. 
James McHenry


Mr. Edward Wright
