---
authors:
- Franco Gelabert
collection_id: 727
collections:
- Reservation File of the Office of the Judge Advocate General (Army), ca. 1800-1950. (RG153)
created: '2018-07-16T14:37:21+00:00'
day: '18'
description: Gelabert provides intelligence on the surrender of the fort at St Marks at Appalache Bay, Florida. Bowles ran away with Captain of Brig Sheerwater, which indians had captured. Discusses plans
  by Spanish officer Vicente Folch to form expedition to retake the fort.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1800061860001'
omeka_image_id: 6466
images:
- d8e911f7937fe35c8220ddb85029163731bac680.jpg
- cdf629690182d2461a8f3ea619edad8bd5891ee7.jpg
- 5579e39b37e71eaa608ebd61b9f3a63b6d7c7cd4.jpg
- c3afe806c4bc60a034ee0f2dc79fe70045c472f3.jpg
- 51336d9fc3a05365a38889613371215b501c5379.jpg
- 02fde84d61c7b81dadea7b99161e84b57025742e.jpg
- c26edc5526ebdf15499b752011f805bf90cd9ad8.jpg
- 108f5f77437a2bbce67bca1af9434b9500e760ac.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- surrender
- canoe
- brig Sheerwater
- capture
- council of war
- expedition
- retake
- vessels of war
- merchantmen
- stores
- intelligence
notable_locations:
- Pensacola
- Fort Wilkinson
- St. Marks
- fort at St. Marks
- Appalache
notable_persons:
- Franco Gelabert
- Franco Paula Gelabert
- Benjamin Hawkins
- Gvernor Vicente Folch
- Mr. Ferguson
- Mr. Bowls
- Mr. Bowles
- Indians
- ship's mate
- negro men
- negro woman
- troops
note: Enclosed in Hawkins to Dexter, 07/10/1800.
omeka_id: 76255
page_start: '7'
recipients:
- Benjamin Hawkins
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Pensacola
title: Regarding the surrender of the fort at St. Marks, Florida, and plans to retake
year: '1800'
---



Pensacola June 18th 1800
Dr Sir,
Owing to the unexpected surrender of the fort St. Marks, the Squadron of Galleys return'd here 2d Inst with the detachment of that Fort.  
On the 10th of the Same arrived here in a Canoe Mr. Ferguson who was Secretary to the adventurer Bowls, who ran away with the Captain of the Brig Sheerwater which the Indians had captured, his mate, two negro men & a negro woman.  
In consequence of the Information which the former is well as the others gave a Council of War was held the 12 Instant where it was unanimously determined that his Excellency Dr. Vincent Folch should form an expedition for the purpose of retaking Fort St. Mark of Appalache & that for its better success he should command it in person.  To this effect
Seven vessels of war & two merchantmen armed were put in readiness & on board of them were embark the troops & stores that was thought necessary for the undertaking, leaving at the same time this place in a regular state of defence, & these forces Sailed yesterday from this port with a favourable weather under the orders of His Excellency.
In consequence I took charge of the Government pr. Interim of this Place according to Royal Orders which I communicate to you for your intelligence & Govert. and I hope you'll furnish opportunities to gratify the Sincere wish I have to be usefull to you in anything that lays within my faculty.  
I have the honor to be respectfully Your most obedient & humble Servant 
Fran:co de Paula Gelabert
Pensacola June 18th 1800
Dear Sir
Almost at the same time that the Expedition of which I speak to you in my letter of this day, arrived here the Dragoons with your letter of the 7th Instant in which you was pleased to inclose the note which the Chiefs of the Creek Nation addressd to this Government.  I have taken due notice of its contents and remain very thankfull for all the kind Offices which you are incessantly rendering us.  This very Instant Thomas McCurtin arrived and brought me your letter which shall be answerd by the first opportunity.  I remain with sentiments of respect Dr Sir Your Most Obedient Hble Servt 
Fran..co de Paula Gelabert 
Colo Benjamin Hawkins Esqr
Fort Wilkinson 10 July 1800
I have to acknowledge the receipt of two of your Excellencies favours of the 18 Ultimo which were deliver'd me on the path to this place by a runner sent from the Tookaubatche.  The determination of your Council of War of the 12th was wise & well times.  The unexpected Surrender of the Fort St. Marks had emboldened the mischief makers & encouraged them to undertake the plunder and conquest of the Floridas.  The efficacious measures divised for the recovery of that Fort: and to restore order among the Semanolies under the direct of his Excellency the Governor Folch will effectually intimidate the mischief makers and will I hope produce the desired End
The pacific mission from Creek Nation left Cowetuh on the 22nd and will have arrived among the Seminolas in time to cooperate by verifying the declaration of the of the Nation of the 3rd and 7th June.  This mission is composed of some of our most respectable chiefs
Mooklausau Hopiu of Ochebofau
Talchiscau Micco}  [Ocfuskulgee?]
Cussetah Tuskeneah
[Tuskegee?] Tustunnuggee}
Tustunnuggee Hopoie}  
Eufaula Tustunnuggee} [Cusstalgee?]
Tuskegee Haujo}
Olahtau Micco} [Cowetulgee?]
I am already informed by an [?che] that the Expidition has Succeeded in part that the fort is retaken without any loss.  Your letter to the Vice Consul of Spain will go Safe by the Post
I have the Honor to be with due regard and Esteem Dear Sir Your Excellency's most Obedient 
Benjamin Hawkins
His Excellency
Don F P Gelabert 
Pensacola
