---
authors:
- Samuel Dexter
collection_id: 976
collections:
- John Adams Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:37:21+00:00'
day: '16'
description: Submits a plan for the instruction of artillerists and engineers under the current laws. The law dictates 2 cadets per artillery company, or 64 in all, and 4 teachers & 2 engineers for instruction,
  with the War Department providing the instruments for teaching. Recommends that the teachers and an engineer be hired and that cadets be recruited and concentrated at a school. Sees it fit to mention
  that the cadets should probably be assured that future officers will be taken from their ranks; also recommends that a single naval midshipman be allowed to attend the school. Recommends a man to serve
  as the first engineering teacher.
doc_types:
- Letter Signed
document_number: '1800071600101'
omeka_image_id: 15194
images:
- b3b3e561bfa7c3ace26fec73778e015008e6e879.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- instruction
- plan
- law
- books
- instruments
- apparatus
- regular school
notable_locations:
- War Department
- New Jersey
notable_persons:
- John Adams
- Samuel Dexter
- Artillerists and Engineers
- cadets
- teachers
- President of the United States
- Secretary of War
- Navy
- midshipmen
- M. Bureau de Pusy
- James McHenry
- General Alexander Hamilton
- Colonel Tousard
- Colonel Burbeck
note: Cited in Adams to Dexter, 07/25/1800.
omeka_id: 76290
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- John Adams
repositories:
- Massachusetts Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Proposal for Plan of Instruction for Artillery & Engineer Cadets
year: '1800'
---



Sec. of Warrecv 24 July An.25Artillerists & Engineers.
I175War Department, 16th July 1800.</p>
Sir,
I have the Honor of submitting to your consideration a Sketch of a plan for executing the existing Laws for the instruction of Artillerists and Engineers. It already is very evident to me that they need all the means that the Law has provided for that purpose.
The Law has provided for two Cadets to each Company of Artillery, making in all Sixty Four Cadets.  It is provided By Law that four Teachers and two Engineers may be appointed by the President of the United States.  The Secretary of War is to provide, under the direction of the President of the United States, necessary Books, instruments and apparatus for the use & benefit of the Artillerists and Engineers.
If
If the President thinks proper to appoint two Teachers and an Engineer, the Secretary will take measures to induce young men to enter the service as Cadets, and he will collect them together and form a regular School.  He will cause the Battalions to be instructed in rotation at some regular stations.
Should these measures be taken, the Secretary conceives it would be necessary that he should be authorized to assure the Cadets that in future Officers will be taken from the most deserving of their numbers, if any should be found fit for appointment.
The Secretary of the Navy thinks it would be highly useful to the Navy that Midshipmen might be admitted into the School by Courtesy.
I am induced to make the statement from an apprehension that the Corps really needing instruction, and the law having provided the means of it, it may be considered incumbent on the War Department to see that the Laws be executed.  Teachers may easily be found: an Engineer,
fit
[175 fa?]
fit to be at the head of the institution probably woould not so easily be found. I am told that M. Bureau de Pusy, now resident in New Jersey, is a suitable man. He is highly spoken of by M.r McHenry, General Hamilton and Col.l Tousard. Col.l Burbick is now here; he and Col.l Tousard both are of the opinion that it would be highly useful that something like the above should be done.
I have the honor to bewith profound respect, Sir,Your very obed.t Serv.tSaml Dexter
The President of the United States.
