---
authors:
- Jeremiah Condy
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:37:36+00:00'
day: '16'
description: Condy discusses a number of matters including the illness of his mother-in-law and the escape of Capt. Merchant who had been charged with acts of piracy.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1800081680201'
omeka_image_id: 6235
images:
- 34ad9ec96203dfa16a592222c1eef526836fc795.jpg
- f8d888d3f782aef0d647ed5e89fdb48380cdc068.jpg
- 6bbc1b06e9e1c3b1592d81c5930f31bb32da990a.jpg
- 77831e08c1615836c427d57d6f6858bbf5956f8e.jpg
month: 08
notable_items:
- distress of the family
- bail
- the dark
- escape
- acts of piracy
- vessel and cargo
- Commisary services
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Alexandria
- Georgetown
- Collector's Office
- Stage Tavern
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Jeremiah Condy
- magistrates
- mother in law
- my servant
- Captain Merchant
- mayor of this place
- Collector of Philadelphia
- Mr. Wolcott
- Gen. Benjamin
omeka_id: 76552
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Alexandria
title: Probably Not Guilty of Acts of Piracy, Etc.
year: '1800'
---



double Letter
Colonel Samuel Hodgdon
Intendant of Stores
Philadelphia


Jeremiah Condy Esq.
16th August 1800
Recd 22d


a Letter to the
Atty G. of U.S.
Mc Lees is of Consequence
Alexandria August the 16th 1800
Dear Sir
I afforded myself the pleasure of addressing you from Georgetown
my place of Residence on Thursday evening in reply to your Letter of the 11th
Instant as my mother in Law befame that evening more afflicted
with her complaint than She had been during the day I was fearfull 
of the Consequences and that I might not from the distress of the family
be able to roceed the next day to this place as I intended I therefore
that very night sent off my Servant on foot with a letter to James
Alexander Esquire the Mayor of this City stating to him such facts
as I thought would produce the effect you desired.
On the next day my mother contined ill and I
could not then come here myself, I received hower an answer
to my letter on that day which I enclose you. This morning
I came here myself and found Out the Captain had been
admitted to bail by one of the Magistrates of the Town and
that a Captain of a Vessell who is here and who is a relative
of Capt. Merchants was his bail. and that last night he
had taken advantage of the dark and made his escape
whether his has been guilty of any acts of Piracy or not is
extremely doubtfull_ I rather think he has not, but that
his intention was so to do.
The Mayor of this place has been gone in
pursuit of him and I have not since I came here
nor shall I before I return have an Opportunity of seeing him.
I called however at the Collectors office and explained matters in 
such a manner that the Vessel and Cargo will remain untill
your Son arrives and as I am convinced they will get the Catain
again for he cannot make off with himself I expect he will
also find him here_ he will no more be admitted to cail_
Your Son will find no difficulty to get possession
of the Vessel apparel &c and Cargo; as the the Catain has
Sworn it is his_ You would however do well to get a
Letter from the Collecor of Philadelphia to the Collector 
of this por_ so that your Son may not exerience any
difficulty relative to security &c_ if necessary before he
gets possession_ a letter from the honorable Colonel to
Mr. Wolcot would be essentially serviceable.
The Captain has gone further in his answer to
the examination made than I had any Idea_ he
does not State that the Patty ws lait_ but that he
Sold her.
The Business as it  now Stands requires
nothing can bee done until your Son Benjamin
gets here_ when he arrives in Georgetown he will
find me by enquiering at the Stage Tavern.
I shall return this Evening as Tomorrow morning 
home
Command my Services when they
Can be usefull to you and believe me
to be very sincerly
I am [undecipherable]
Jeremiah Condy


[undecipherable] The report that the Captain is
taken


Col Hodgdon
Charles Page
Aug 17. 1800
Mr. Jeremiah Condy
Accountants Offices
City of Washington
Collectors Office Alexandria August 17 1800
Sir
I this day communicated to the Attorney 
General of the United States, the information you gave me
yesterday relative to the Captain of the Brig Ranger he
conceives it necessary that you should come and make an
Affidavit before the Mayor relative to the circumstances
of the Brig Patty in order to prevent his obtaining Bail
agreeably to the Laws of the United States, respecting acts of
Piracy. When you were in Town yesterday Captain Merchant
had made his escape but has since been brought back, and
is now in close confinement, he may effect his beeing bailed
a second time, therefore absolutely necessary that he should
be prevented
I am, with respect
Sir
yor obt. Servt.
Chal. Page Df Coll.


Mr. Jeremiah Condy
City of Washington
