---
authors:
- Samuel Dexter
collection_id: 740
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:37:50+00:00'
day: '29'
description: Medical aid should be offered to officers by the public. If at his post but there is no aid available, an officer should be permitted to seek and secure the best medical aid at the public expense.
  Officers on furlough are not entitled to publicly funded aid, as they have temporarily and voluntarily withdrawn from their contract with the public.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1800092900101'
omeka_image_id: 19732
images:
- d92dbeca643fdf10a6cae606c4e4aa12c1d408bf.jpg
- 2423200f3a12ed431904a512304a0fe75c04664d.jpg
- 22d1189e1855ad6725d2f14a7e0ac492311ae0df.jpg
month: 09
notable_items:
- medical assistance
- medical aid
- applications
- accounts
- regiments
- general rule
- contract
- services
- compensation
- privileges
- post
- procure
- additional expense
- furlough
- duties
notable_locations:
- War Department
notable_persons:
- William Simmons
- Samuel Dexter
- officers
- the public
omeka_id: 76855
page_start: '1'
num_pages: '3'
recipients:
- William Simmons
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Accounts for Medical Aid
year: '1800'
---



War Department
29th Septr 1800
Samuel Dexter
recd 30th 
directing the allowance 
of Medical assistance to officers 
on duty not in a Substation to
obtain Public Medical Aid.  

War Department
The Accountant of the War Department
War Department 29 Sept. 1800
Sir
I am induced by repeated applications being made to me for the admission of accounts for medical attendance on Officers distant from their Regiments or the regular medical aid provided for them to establish some general Rule on the subject.
On an Officer's entering into the Service, he forms a Contract with the public, by which for certain services he is to receive a certain compensation and to be entitled to certain privileges.  Medical aid is one of the articles with which he is to be furnished by the public.  If at the post or place where he is stationed, he be in want of that aid, and the public be not prepared to supply it, the Contract is in so much infringed by the public, and the Officer is not to suffer by the infringement; he has therefore an undoubted right to procure the first best medical aid it may be in his power to procure, and the public must bear the addition Expence.  In case of an Officer being detached, the same reasons apply why the
public and not he should be burthened with the expence: he is constrained to quit a station where regular medical aid is supposed to be provided for him, and the public ought therefore to prevent him from suffering either by want of aid when needed, or by being compelled to pay for what he is entitled to receive as part of the compensation for his services.  
An Officer on Furlough is differently situated: he voluntarily quits the place where medical aid is provided for him conformably to his contract with the public; he is, at his request, exonerated for so long a time from the duties attached to his office, in order that he may attend to his private business or to the gratification of whatever other inducements he may have had to request a furlough, and, thus withdrawing himself, the public is not to pay for medical aid which he may find it necessary to procure, at a place other than that at which the public are bound to supply him.   
I am Sir Your Obed Servt
Saml Dexter
The Accountant of the War Dept.
