---
author_note: Oliver Wolcott; Buckner Harris
authors:
- Oliver Wolcott, Jr.
collection_id: 739
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:38:55+00:00'
day: '06'
description: Articles of Agreement betwen Oliver Wolcott, Secretary of the Treasury, and Buckner Harris & Co., owners of the Adellam Ironworks in Jackson County, State of Georgia, to supply  four thousand
  cannonballs of five and a half inches diameter and deliver them to the collectors of sundry southern states.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1802070690001'
omeka_image_id: 7611
images:
- 81ae246f24084ac321be58da84a22a0e2c6ebb4b.jpg
- f2d375d05fe072ddafbbbdde4bd4bed117aa2b53.jpg
month: '07'
notable_persons:
- Oliver Wolcott, Jr.
- Buckner Harris
omeka_id: 78068
page_start: '1'
recipients:
- Brigade Major Buckner Harris
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Four Thousand Cannonballs
year: '1802'
---



(Copy)
Articles of Agreements between Oliver Wolcott Secretary of the Treasury of the United States of the one part, and Buckner Harris on behalf of Buckner Harris & Co owners of the Adellam Iron Works in Jackson County and State of Georgia, he being authorised so to do, of the other part, made and concluded, the sixth day of July, One thousand seven hundred and ninety eight.
First -- That the said Buckner Harris & Co shall furnish and supply the United States with four thousand Cannon Ball of five and a half inches in diameter, which said Cannon Ball shall be perfectly round, free from ridges and irregularities, and from all cavities above two twelfths of an inch in depth.
Second -- That the said Buckner Harris & Co shall within two months and twenty days of the date hereof, deliver the said Cannon Ball at their own proper risk and expense in the following quantities, to the following persons and at the the following places _ to wit; One thousand Balls of the dimensions and qualities aforesaid to Griffith John McRee, Collector of Wilmington, North Carolina, one other thousand Balls to Charles Brown, Collector of Georgetown South Carolina, one other thousand Balls to James Simons, Collector of Charleston
Charleston, South Carolina, and the remaining one thousand Balls to John Habersham, Collector of Savannah.
Third - The said Secretary of the Treasury on behalf of the United States covenants and agrees to pay or cause to be paid to the said Buckner Harris & Co. in Charleston at the rate of Sixty six dollars and two thirds of a dollar for every ton weight of shot which they may deliver within the time and agreeably to the stipulation of this Contract upon their producing to the Collector of Charleston, Receipts for the delivery of the said Cannon Ball, specifying the weight thereof and signed by persons authorised to receive the same.  
S. S. In witness whereof, the said Secretary of the Treasury on behalf of the United States, hath hereunto For the Secy of the Treasy subscribed his hand, and affixed the Seal of the Treasury and the said Buckner Harris on behalf of Buckner Harris & Co. hath hereunto set his hand and seal, the day and year above written.  
(Signed) Buckner Harris for self & Co. 
S. S. 
Sealed & delivered in the presence of} Edward Jones, Robert Jones Heath.
