---
author_note: Alexander Hamilton; James Bruff.
authors:
- James Bruff
collection_id: 755
collections:
- Muster Rolls of Regular Army Organization, 1784-1912. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:39:00+00:00'
description: Bruff produces abstract of letter from Major General Hamilton ordering him to repair to Niagara on the affair of charges against Major Rivardi.
doc_types:
- Copy of Signed Document
document_number: '1799080737001'
omeka_image_id: 20933
images:
- 4dda650c5dd0fc962808b0a7407fc37762e21e54.jpg
notable_locations:
- Niagara
notable_persons:
- Caleb Swan
- Major General Hamilton
- Major Rivardi
- Secretary of War
- paymaster general
note: Enclosed in Bruff, 08/99/1799.
omeka_id: 78143
page_start: '5'
recipients:
- Caleb Swan
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Account of Captain James Bruff, Artillerists and Engineers
---



Aug. 7. 1799 J. Bruff
Capt. A & Egrs. on account
400 Dollars
Warrt.  No. 2
Philadelpia
August 1799
Sir,
In obedience to the orders of General Hamilton

I am now on my way to Niagara with two necessary
witnesses  (a Sergeant & Artificer) to substantiate, before
a Court of inquiry, charges exhibited against him last winter.
To enable me w/Toussard; it will be necessary to advance a
sum of money to defray the expense of transportation and
subsistence for which I may be held accountable--an
estimate of what this advance ought to be, I have taken the
liberty to state as following
Stage Hire for Self & two Soldiers from
Baltimore to Niagara - say 700 miles @ 18 cents/mile
& return the same - is - 252.
Accommodations on the way
Say 50 miles per day is 14 days at 450 cents per day
& return the [undecipherable]. -- is ---- 126.

                                     $   378.

Unforseen accidents or delays              22.

                                        _____
                                     $   400

for the due application of which I hope to produce
paper vouchers, and have the honor to be
Yo. obedient servant
(signed) JBruff
An extract from General Hamiltons letter ordering
me with my messages to Niagara on my charges
against Major Toussard.
Letter - "I have lately written to you directing you to
repair to Niagara on the affair of your charges
against Major Rivardi" "You have been also told that
indispensable witnesses may be taken
on at the expense of the Public -- but this can
only respect charges which have been regularly exhibited
-ed, not those which may be hereinafter be contem-
-plated as you intimate the existence of such;  I
conceive it to be my duty to call for a specification"
(Signed)
Alexander Hamilton
The Secretary of War has assured me upon a representation
of my instructions from General Hamilton, requesting
that part of is letter that directs my going to
Niagara in advance on account may be made by the 
Paymaster General.  /  Signed  JBruff
Swan Esq.
Received of @/War  Genl this 7th 
day of August 1799 the sum of four
hundred dollars on account --for
which I am accountable to the Accountant
of War or to the said C/War
Received  Signed JBruff
400 $
