---
authors:
- Unknown Author
collection_id: 782
collections:
- Numbered Record Books, 1775-1798. (RG93) (M853)
created: '2018-07-16T14:39:05+00:00'
description: Notes on the claim of Captain Pierre Ayott
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '9999999990055'
omeka_image_id: 22941
images:
- 28c9c5fc155827229235c8459918f42eff80373e.jpg
notable_items:
- commission
- French
- the service
- certificate
- immediate command
- a company
- blockade
- accounts and vouchers
- the enemy
- employed
- resolve of Congress
notable_locations:
- Quebec Canada
notable_persons:
- unknown
- unknown
- Captain Pierre Ayott
- J. Duggan
- the Commandant
- Colonel Arnold
- Colonel Lewis Dubois
- 5th New York Regiment
- Brigadier General James Clinton
- Colonel Antile
- Colonel Hazen's regiment
- Colonel Hazen
- the Canadian Regiment
- Moses Hazen, Esquire
- P. Regnier De Roussier
- General Mongomery
- Congress
- Paymaster General
omeka_id: 78203
page_start: '4'
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Notes on Captain Pierre Ayott Claim
---



Notes on Capt. Pierre Ayott Claim
1.	His commission in French dated the 17 January 1776 & singed by J Dugan says order of the commandant the Col. Arnold Said Dugan was a Col.,  In the service
2.	14 April 1776 letter from Col. Antile in French
3.	Certificate from Col. Lewis Dubois of the 5th may Reg date April 24 84., say Capt Ayott was in service 1775 y 1776
4.	Certificate from B Gen James Clinton dated 24th April 84 says Capt Ayott was under his immediate on man din March & April 1776
5.	Certificate from Col., Antile dated June 1ST 84 says Capt Ayott was me of the oldest Captains in Col Mozer Regt.
6.	Certificates from ditto Date Dec 1st 1784 says Pierre Ayott was appointed a Capt in the Canadian Regt commanded by Mozer Hazen Esq; raised a company & was actually employed in keeping the Blockade of Quebec, his accto & Vouchers fill in to the hands of the Enemy
7.	Certificates from P Regnier De Roufoler dated 2d Dec 84 says Capt Ayott was Employed by Gen Mon go mery  as Captain
8.	Resolve of Congress Dec 24th 1784 of the acct of Capt Pierre Ayott Seferd to the pay Master Gen
Questions of Jos Howell to Capt Pierre Ayott
Q. What time did your enter the Service
An. Some time before the date of commission
Q.  did you consider your self an officer of Col Hazen´s Reg t.
A. Yes but was on Detachments at point Levy and did not Join it before made a prisoner.
Q. Did you raise a Company for the service of thel
A. Yes
Q. How many men.
A. Forty seven.
Q. Who Supplied you with money for that Purpose.
A.  Gen Wooster requested me to raise the Co. & the Expences should be allowed.
Q. Was the expences allowed
A. Greced from Col. Antibe two Dubloons & one half Joe from Col Duggan.
Q. How much do you think your Company cost in Raising.
A.  I can not ascertain
Q. Was any Bounty allowed or given
A. Yes & furnished Provision for the Men at his own expence
Q. Did you receive any Money for the pay of your Company while they were in service
A. I remember to have reced of Col Antibe above
Above 100 Dollars for that Purpose.
Q. What time were you taken Prisoner
A. Sometime in May 1776 about the middle
Q.  At what place where you taken
A. at Point Le Crois about 14 Leagues be bio Quebec
Q. Were any soldiers taken with you
A. No-the 1st & 2d Leant taken
Q. What were you released from in prisonment
A. January 1st 1777
Q. Did you follow any occupation after your Releasedment 
A. No I lived among my friends
Q. Did you sign any Parole not to leave Canada
A. No but was is honor Bo and not to take up arms
Q. What service were you on when taken Prisoner
A. Collecting my Men together in order to leave Canada & join the American Army
