---
authors:
- Constant Freeman
collection_id: 743
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:39:11+00:00'
day: '19'
description: Freeman informs Simmons of the state of Ensign McCall's account as well as that of Colonel Pope whose men will be paid as soon as Freeman can find time to see him. There is a question regarding
  whether the militia cavalry is allowed pay for more than one horse.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter / Autograph Document Signed
document_number: '1796121970010'
omeka_image_id: 7371
images:
- b594af2af715c678d4edd89f0b4c466a74be8299.jpg
month: '12'
notable_items:
- duplicate of my letter to you
- eight months pay
- this post
- rolls for the detachment
- journey to the lower country
- Capt. Eaton's pay
- months of September and October
- month of January
- state of Mr. McCall's accounts
- last year's payments
- vouchers
- money which was sent last July
- Field and Staff, Martin's and the artillery company
- subsistence
- some signatures wanting to complete
- list of the militia muster and payrolls
- infantry
- stoppages he has made from the spies
- one horse
- his payroll
- estimate I have transmitted
- statement of his [Pope's] account
- post-manteau
notable_locations:
- Fort Pickering
- Oconee
- Forts St. Tammany  and Telfair
- Fort Fidins (?)
- Colonel Pope
- Savannah
notable_persons:
- Constant Freeman
- William Simmons
- Ensign McCall
- all the troops in this state
- Capt. Eaton
- President of the United States
- Secretary of War
- officers in the militia cavalry
- Capt. Giradean (?)
omeka_id: 78384
recipients:
- William Simmons
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Fort Pickering
title: State of Ensign McCall's Account, Etc.
year: '1796'
---



Duplicate
C. Freeman
19th December 1796.
Duplicate
Fort Pickering
19th December 1796
Sir. 
Enclosed is a duplicate of my letter to you of the 12th instant.  
I have since paid to Ensign McCall eight months pay for all the troops in this State, from the 1st of January to the 31st of August inclusively, and as it is probable the troops will be soon removed from this post to the Oconee.  I have also paid to him the rolls for the detachments which will be left here and at Forts St. Tammany & Telfair for the months of September & October - this measure will save him a journey to the lower country when the pay shall be received by me for these months.  Please to observe that, I have deducted Capt. Easton's pay except for the month of January which he received here - he will be paid at your office.  
As you may be desirous of knowing the state of Mr. McCall's accounts for the last year's payments I have enclosed a memorandum whereof and his vouchers from No. 73 to 82 inclusively; those for the money which was sent last July to Fort Fidius to pay the Field & Staff, Martin's & The Artillery company and for the subsistence, have not all been received, as there are some signatures wanting to complete.  He has, however, noted the whole amount
amount in this statement, which I suppose has by this time been paid - they shall be forwarded as soon as they come to hand.  
I have, Sir, received from Colonel Pope, a list of the militia muster & payrolls which have been lodged with him, enclosed is a copy thereof - there troops have all been authorized by the President of the U. States, except No. 5 and 6, unless they are to be considered as parts of the Hundred Infantry, who were to be called into Service this year - I suppose this to be the case.  I should have paid the authorized rolls, if they had been presented in time - I shall do it as soon as I can see Colonel Pope - the stoppages he has made from the spies and the money I have on hand will I imagine be sufficient.  I request you would submit the list to the Secretary of War, in order that the money may be replaced.  
I would thank you to inform me whether the officers in the militia cavalry are allowed pay for more than one horse?  Capt. Giradean has charged for two on his payroll.  I have allowed but one in the estimate I have transmitted to you.  
I shall go next day after to morrow to Fort St. Tammany - from hence to Savannah, where I expect to see Colonel Pope and to forward you a statement of his account.  
I am with great esteem Sir Your humble Servant
Const. Freeman A. W. D.
William Simmons Esqr A. D. M.
P.S.
I should now send you the rolls, But the gentleman who takes this to Savannah will not have room in his portmanteau - You shall receive them by the first conveyance.  C. F.
