---
authors:
- James Seagrove
collection_id: 896
collections:
- 'Third Congress:  Transcribed Confidential Reports and Other Communications Transmitted by the Secretary of War to the House of Representatives, 3d'
created: '2018-07-16T14:39:44+00:00'
day: '17'
description: James Seagrove Creek Indian Agent gives an account of the murder and robbery at his brother Robert Seagrove's store at Trader's Hill on St Mary's River on the night of 11 March 1793. Mr John
  Fleming [Captain Fleming] and Mr. Daniel Moffett were killed and another was missing. About 2000 lbs sterling in goods stolen. Also reports on party of Indians inhumanely butchering 3 men and a girl on
  13 March. Has reported news to Governor of Georgia Telfair and Federal Troop Commander Major Henry Gaither. In the process of trying to gather up information on the culprits. Does not believe Creek Chiefs
  involved. Has taken into custody one man who is currently being held at Ft St Tammany. Private dispatches to President of United States General George Washington will throw light on the episode.   Has
  also attached a copy of the boundary line from the Alamataha to St Mary's River for Knox' review.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1793031740050'
omeka_image_id: 19557
images:
- abcd268f8dcf63291ea50b984cb336d4f2841197.jpg
month: '03'
notable_items:
- boundary lines
- murder by Indians
notable_locations:
- Trader's Hill on St Mary's River
- Ft St Tammany
- Alamataha
- St Mary's River
- Colerain
- Burnt Fort
- Great Satilla River
notable_persons:
- James Seagrove Creek Indian Agent
- Robert Seagrove
- Mr John Fleming [Captain Fleming]
- Daniel Moffett
- Governor of Georgia Telfair
- Federal Troop Commander Major Henry Gaither
- storekeeper
- Georgia Militia
- President of United States General George Washington
omeka_id: 78949
recipients:
- Henry Knox
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: St. Mary's Georgia
title: Letter from James Seagrove Creek Indian Agent, to Henry Knox Secretary of War describing the robbery and murder at Robert Seagroves' store at Traders Hill St Mary's River
year: '1793'
---




James Seagrove, to the Secretary of War, dated St. Mary, 17th March 1793

Sir

Since I had the honor of writing you from Savannah 

on the 3d of January last, I have been on the frontier, where every thing in my department appeared in perfect tranquility and all my advice was from the Creek nation promised a continuation of peace and friendship until the 11th instant when I received information from a friendly Indian of a party of about thirty of the lower Creeks being on our frontier, near Traders hill on the River St. Mary and that from what I could discover they were bent on doing mischief. I could scarcely give the least credit to this information, but as it came so direct from an Indian who I knew to be friendly, I thought it would be wrong to totally disregard it. I therefore called on my neighbors and in five hours from my receiving the information I sat off with nine gentlemen volunteers well mounted. It being nine O'clock on the 12th we proceeded to Colerain, where we arrived by dawn of day.There we received the truly alarming and [undecipherable] account of the Indians having on night of the 11th broke into the store of Robert Seagrove and killed Mr John Henry the store keeper and Mr Daniel Moffett a gentleman who came there on business and that another man was missing.I proceeded without a [undecipherable] delay with my small party to the place where the murder was committed in hopes of coming up with the Murderers but found that they were fled having robbed the store of upwards of two thousand pounds sterling in goods. I was prepared to follow them when the Indians who first gave the information came in and informed me that he had followed them upwards of thirty miles on their way to the nation. That they were well provided with horses and traveled with all possible haste. I therefore concluded it would not answer any good purpose to follow them, so returned to Colerain to cover the public stores at that place, not knowing but that the other parties might be out. I remained there on the night of the 13th, and on the morning of the 14th received information that a party of Indians had killed some people on the 13th about ten miles from us. I then ... leaving three volunteers and immediately pursued and within one mile of a place called the Burnt fort on Great [undecipherable] found three men and a girl most inhumanly butchered by the savages. We took their track and pursued them upward of forty miles but could not overtake them, our horses being much tired and not having any provisions for two days we returned on the afternoon of the 15th to where the last mentioned people were killed. I had them buried and returned to Colerain which place I am putting in a state of defense. In a few days I hope to have it in such a situation as to insure it against any attack from savages. As the country is now alarmed there is hopes further mischief will be prevented. I have sent this news by [undecipherable] to our Governor and to Major Gaither Commander of the Federal Troops in this state. A fort established at Colerain and one at Burnt Fort on Setilla with 50 good horsemen to scout between (it being no more than six miles)would effectively cover the whole county below and between the river St. Mary and Setilla. I hope Major Gaither will find himself at liberty to embody a company of Militia horse for this purpose, this new frontier is in a very delicate situation. The cause of this sudden change in the conduct of the Creeks ramains as yet a secret, further than you have been informed. My private dispatch of this date to the President of the United States, will throw light on the business. Having received an express from Town that a vessel was on the point of sailing to Philadelphia I left Colerain and am just arrived here for the purpose of giving the most early intelligence of this affair. Inclosed you have copies of two affidavits concerning the Murder at Trader's hill; in a day or two I shall forward you circumstantial authenticated proofs of the whole. On the 13th an Indian was taken at Trader's hill by a small party of my people. I have saved his life, tho' there is little doubt of his being one of the party who did the mischief but until we know whether or not the nation sanctioned the late outrage or could give satisfaction. I thought it best to detain him a close . I therefore brought him here and lodged him in Fort St. Tammany should any more be taken I will observe the same by them as far as in my power. Should there be a war they will serve to exchange for our people who may be so unfortunate as to fall into their hands.

I cannot believe that the Chiefs of the Creek Nation are acquainted with this party being out. And I am in hopes satisfaction will be given by the nations, I shall send an account of this business immediately into the nations and demand satisfaction on part of my Country. Had the Creek nation determined on general war I am confident I should have known it from different quarters but all my late advises are to the contrary.

That you may be enabled to judge of the situation of the Country I take the liberty of enclosing you a draft of the same which will also serve to inform you of the course of the boundary line from the Alamataka to the St. Mary's, where you have commanded it, I will be obliged to you to return it as I have not another.
