---
authors:
- John Galphin
collection_id: 896
collections:
- 'Third Congress:  Transcribed Confidential Reports and Other Communications Transmitted by the Secretary of War to the House of Representatives, 3d'
created: '2018-07-16T14:39:43+00:00'
day: '26'
description: Galphin extends olive branch. He recounts the background of the dispute, noting that white ambitions seem to know no bounds. Notes that treaty must be established by legislative body and not
  by clandestine means with a few Chiefs who don't possess authority to dispose of land. Notes that no sovereignty was ceded to whites in 1763 except the lands purchased by his majesty's subjects. Creeks
  have always been independent people and they look with astonishment at steps taken by United States to rob of rights. Galphin wants to know Georgia people's intentions and as a measure of good faith has
  instructed warriors to commit no hostilities across the Oconee. If white intentions are dishonest, Galphin says there are sufficient forces to stain the land with blood; Creeks will sell their lives with
  their country. Galphin is critical of James Seagrove's designs. Says his meeting in November 1792 at St. Marys was part of plot to get land. Asks why Seagrove did not come into the Nation himself instead
  of sending his assistant Timothy Barnard, who has limited credibility with Chiefs. True copy from files of W. Urquhart.
doc_types:
- Author's Letterbook Copy
document_number: '1793082690050'
omeka_image_id: 19557
images:
- abcd268f8dcf63291ea50b984cb336d4f2841197.jpg
month: 08
notable_locations:
- St Marys
- Coweta
- Georgia
- Britain
- United States
notable_persons:
- John Galphin
- Jared Irwin
- Governor of Georgia
- James Seagrove Creek Indian Agent
- Timothy Barnard
- Bernard
- Cowetas Council
- British
- Creek Nation
- congress
- United States goverment
- W. Urquhart S.E.D.
omeka_id: 78940
recipients:
- Jared Irwin
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Council Cowetas
title: Letter from John Galphin to General Jared Irwin on the continuing hostilities between Creek Nation and Georgia settlers
year: '1793'
---




John Galphin to General Irwin. 
Sir, 
Feeling with the greatest concern the hostilities and bloodshed which has been produced by the differences subsisting between and in all parts of our borders, we now offer in behalf of our nation towards terminating
terminating the present War, and adjusting such terms as may decide forever the matter now in dispute. You will know the cause of the discontent with us has ever been from the limits of our country, consider that we have retreated from the plains to the woods, from thence to the mountains, but no binds established by nature or by compact have stayed the ambitions or satisfied your people.  It is our determination to adhere to a line fairly agreed on but such agreement must be by the legislative body of the nations and not a clandestine bargain with a few Chiefs that have no manner of right to dispose of any lands, such transactions only regenerate in fraud, always lead to animosities and bloodshed, you well know that no sovereignty was ceded to you at the peace of 1763 except such lands as was purchased by his majesty subjects by solemn treaty.  
And we are now as we always have been an independent and free people, knowing this and our own abilities to maintain our independence, we view with astonishment the steps taken by the United States to rob us of our rights.  
We actually see our whole country laid out into districts without considering us to have any kind of clause or right to which nature has bestowed on us, and of which oppression or prejudice alone can attempt to rob us.  
Consider well now the business on hand, and let us know your intention, soon as possible.  I have given strict orders to our Warriors to commit no hostilities on the other side of the Oconee, and expect that you will give out the same to your people but should your intentions be dishonest, know that we have still warriors sufficient
sufficient to stain your lands with blood and that is our solemn determination to sell our lives with our Country.
Peace is best for all men therefore we desire you will let us know as soon as possible at the Cowetas where all public business will be transacted as soon as may be.  
We see that numbers of people wish to get possession of our lands, and are framing plans for that purpose (this we see plainly by a treaty held with James Seagrove at St. Mary's last November who called himself Agent appointed by Congress if so, why did he not come into the nation, where matters might have been long settled and we might been in peace and friendship, but no, he sent to Timothy Barnard who made him believe he had great influence in this Country, our Chiefs are too well acquainted with that man Barnard to adhere to anything he may say.  He cannot in any trades dare give out any talks in our Council, or should it be supposed that we should put any confidence in such men. Rm 
Sir &c True Copy drawn Aug 26th 1793 Jared Irwin
In Council Cowetas 21st August 1793}
Taken from the files of the Executive Attest. W. Urquhart, S. E. D.
