---
authors:
- Accountant's Office
collection_id: 258
collections:
- Printed Versions
created: '2018-07-16T14:39:49+00:00'
description: War Department accountant responds in conformity with Resolution of House of Representatives of 2 February 1801 regarding losses in the office of Secretary of War.  Fire took place on 8 November
  1800.  Papers destroyed were those lodged on the 3rd story of the building. Accountant lists accounts of the Old Army.
doc_types:
- Typed Document
document_number: '1801029921055'
omeka_image_id: 29994
images: []
month: '02'
notable_items:
- war department fire
- resolution house of congress
- loss
- papers
- supplies
- swords
- belts
- scabbards
- contract 1799
- vouchers
- paymaster general's accounts
notable_locations:
- War Department
- Philadelphia
- New York
- North Carolina
- Massachusetts
- Rhode Island
- Vermont
- 3rd story of war department
notable_persons:
- accountant  war department
- William Simmons
- Samuel Dexter
- Secretary of War
- House of Representatives
- Congress
- Old Army
- paymasters
- agents
- paymaster general
- commissioner of army accounts
- William Colfax
- contractor
- Robert Balls
- William Colfax and Company
- Nathan Starr
omeka_id: 79074
recipients:
- Samuel Dexter
resource_type: Document
sent_from: War Department
title: Regarding Losses from War Department Fire
year: '1801'
---


Accountant W.D.  Letter Book G Page 377
The accountant for the War Department reports agreeably to the request
of the Secretary of War in conformity with the Resolution of the House of
Representatiges of the 2nd February 1801  as far as related to less ascertained
in his office in the House occupied by the War Department destroyed by fire
on the evening of the 8th Nov. 1800 [8th Nov. 1800. circled on typescript.]  That the papers destroyed were those only
which had been lodged in the 3rd story of the building & consisted as follows:
RELATING TO THE ACCOUNTS OF THE OLD ARMY
[Left column]                                 
Several cases containing muster and pay         
Rolls, others containing accounts and           
vouchers of sundry paymasters & Agents         
for paying troops, and one case contain        
ing individual settlements made by the         
late paymaster General & Commissioner of       
army accounts                                  
[Circled text around the words
individual settlements....army accounts.
Illegible signature beginning with C ]
[Right column]
These papers could only be of 
used in the examination of claims
for services prior to the Estab-
lishment of the present Government
which if not already settled are which if not already settled are
all barred & foreclosed by act of
Limitation.  The loss will therefor
not materially effect the unsettled
accounts of the United States
Wm Colfax accounts as contractor for the
state of new York from 1 Jan. to 31 Dec. 1799
Robert Balls accounts as contractor for North
Carolina for supplies furnished in 1799-1800
Wm Colfax & Co. account as contractors for the
states of NY Mass   RI & Vt. from 1 Jan to
the 31 Dec. 1800.
Nathan Starr's account as contractor for furnish
ing Swords Belts and Scxabbards per contract 1799
Part of the vouchers belonging to the Paymaster
Generals Accounts. 
Dept War  Accountant Office 2-6-01.
P 297 to David Henly  Nov 14, 1800.
"The unfortunate accident which occurred last Saturday night in the
house in which the War office was held having taken fire and consumed
many of the papers belonging thereto, has put us in much confusion-my
papers fortunately have been [underlined] very generally [end underlining] saved- they having been removed
before the fire communicated to my apartments but those of the Secretary of
War are very generally consumed--
