---
collection_id: 774
collections:
- Claims Files Relating to Service in the Revolutionary War, 1775-1851. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:39:49+00:00'
day: '28'
description: Copy of the entries for August 28, 1797, in the waste book of accounts at Knoxville.
doc_types:
- Copy of document
document_number: '1797082870021'
omeka_image_id: 16007
images: []
month: 08
notable_items:
- waste book
- fraudulent power of attorney
- writing
- expenses
notable_locations:
- Knoxville
- Tellico
- Campbell's station
- Kings Iron Works
notable_persons:
- Stephen Hillis
- Indian Department
- David Moor
- Captain of the Boat
- Alexander Blackley
- oarsman
- James Tiner
- Colonel Butler
- Lieutenant Daven
- Agent of War
- servants
- Major Lewis
- Grant
note: Enclosed in Hillis to Simmons 9/13/1797. One of multiple enclosures.
omeka_id: 79083
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Knoxville
title: Copied from Knoxville Waste Book
year: '1797'
---



Knoxville August 28th 1797.
Cash Dr To Indian Department
For a sum of money charged the 30th March 1795. paid David Moor which he drew by a fraudulent power of attorney and for which his whole pay was stoped as Capt of the Boat   57--
Indian Department Dr To Cash
Paid Alexander Hackley personally for his Services as an Oarsman on board the Boat commanded by David Moor the 18th of October to the 14th December 1794.  57--
Office Expence Dr To Cash
Paid James Tiner for 9 days writing upon extra Services @ 1.25  11.25
Contingent Expence Dr To Cash
Paid Col Butler Sixth [undecipherable] and the Agent of war expences going to Tellico by Campbell Station - with Servants Forage &c.
Dr              0.66
[undecipherable] at Knox   0.50
1.16
Paid the Agent of War expences going with Major Lewis & Grant to Kings Iron works up on a special commission [undecipherable] 16.30
17.46
Knoxville August 29.th 1797.
Contingent Expence Dr To Cash
Paid Hugh Dunlap for Services performed for Col Butler on Nolachucky       15--
Commissary Department Dr To Cash
Paid Jonah Watters his Services as spring Commissary & Q.Master from 1st July to 1 Aug. @ 400 dollars per Annum                 33.69
Commissary Department Dr To Cash
Advanced Lt. Saml. R. Davidson for acting as spring Commissary to the troops at South west point             46.7
30th
Stephen Hillis Dr To Cash
Paid Robert Wyley atto. to Sundry expences for Seviers Expedition     287.--
Paid William Dunwoody att. to Sundry persons for Seviers Expedition    69.--
William Dunwoody atto. Sundry services for 1793                       22.80
378.80
Quarter Masters Department Dr To Cash For sundries & Bills paid for, for Lt. Saml. R. Davidson House at Tellico                            91.21
Contingent Expence Dr To the Treasurer
For warrant N0 2216 in favour of Lt. Saml. Davidson for Expences from Philadelphia to Knox as express to order on Clothing             100--
Cash Dr To Contingent Expence
Bring the balance of Lt. Davidsons traveling expences               5.14
Knoxville August 31.st 1797.
Stephen Hillis Dr To Cash
For to pay R. Huston for services in Genl. Seviers Expedition from 27th Sept to 25th October 1793.                   21.75
For to pay William Cowan & George Teoford for services in Seviers Expedition from 21st Sept to the 30th October 28th
December 6th 1793.                                     30.--
111.75
Quarter Masters Department Dr To Cash
Paid John Hammond for 2 Grindstones for Col Butler's Reg.t    2.50
Stephen Hillis Dr To Cash
For to pay David Conly services in Genl Seviers Expedition Capt Harrison's Co. 21st Aug - 10th Dec. 1793          84--
Contingent Expence Dr To Cash
Paid John Heron in full for the [undecipherable] of Troops and Sundry persons on public Account                                         10.37
Contingent Expence Dr To Cash
Paid John Hillsman in full for Sundries for the Quarter Master, & Commissioners   35.80
Knoxville
September 13th 1797
Stephen Hillis [undecipherable]
