---
authors:
- Maria Hodgdon
collection_id: 742
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:39:54+00:00'
day: '10'
description: Mrs. Hodgdon reminds Samuel not to work too hard and to try and get some exercise. She chides him for visiting a friend and not extending his journey to her nearby village. She refers to the
  removal of some public offices to the new seat of government.
doc_types:
- Autograph Letter Signed
document_number: '1800071055002'
omeka_image_id: 6219
images:
- 3daa3839ae86df8b6721d241c6c5e533d0fc4c5d.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- exercise
- this village
- lambs
- her antipathy to writing
- public offices
notable_locations:
- Bordentown
- Boston
- Washington, D.C.
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- Maria Hodgdon
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Mr. Montgomery
- Eliza Carson
- children
- Aunt Hodgdon
- Mrs. Richie
omeka_id: 79098
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: I hear several of the public offices are removed to Washington...
year: '1800'
---



Samuel Hodgdon Esqr
per Boat - Philadelphia
Maria Hodgdon
18th July 1800
Recd 24  she wants some small articles
Bordentown July 18th 1800
By and old acquaintance of yours, Mr. Nietzes, I was favoured with your letter of the 15th.  I was made happy by hearing of your health, and that of the family's, at the same time, I fear your too close attention to the duties of your Office, will, unless you devote some part to exercise, impair your constitution.  I am surprised you have not visited your friend Mr Montgomery, though I must confess, had you have rode that far, I should begin to feel myself neglected, that you did not extend your ride to this village.  I will enclose the list of articles [which] you will oblige me by sending, with my friend Eliza Carson.  [?jamin] you say has arrived in Boston, and is well, I should write to him shortly.  "The Children you say skips like Lambs", I don't know anything that offersaffords me so much pleasure as hearing they are well, and in that innocent state, which I hope they will always be emolient of - Aunt Hodgdon has never answered my letter.  I make excuses for her in this way, her antipathy to writing, I should not however suppose, she would feel that reluctance to a Niece.
I hear several of the Public Offices are removed to Washington do let me know, how yours is stationed. in Philadelphia I hope - remember me Affectionately to all friends.  Mrs. Ritchie has been [indispend?], I hope she is now mending.  I present you her respects - Let me receive an answer to this by next Boat -  Adieu 
Yours
Maria Hodgdon
PS  my love to Uncle - 
Saml Hodgdon Esqr
