---
authors:
- Joseph Collins
collection_id: 286
collections:
- James O'Hara Papers, BV 1804-1807.
created: '2018-07-16T14:39:54+00:00'
day: '12'
description: Joseph Collins submits a copy of a report on the state of lots of Indian corn.
doc_types:
- Document
document_number: '1793071255000'
omeka_image_id: 7945
images:
- 24ffb335b88c6b1eacee5dec79006b5e29047be8.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- inspected
- bushels
- Indian corn
- sweat of horses
- dampness
- boats
- damage
- winnowing
- hay
- cleaning
- preserving
- standing fatigue
- wind farm
notable_locations:
- Fort Hamilton
notable_persons:
- Joseph Collins
- James O'Hara
- Quartermaster General
- Brigade General James Wilkinson
omeka_id: 79179
recipients:
- James O'Hara
repositories:
- Indiana Historical Society Library
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Fort Hamilton
title: Report on Lots of Indian Corn
year: '1793'
---



Fort Hamilton July 12 1793
James O'Hara Esqr, Qu Mr General
Sir
Agreeably to the orders of the 10 Instant by the Honble Brigadier Genl James Wilkinson we have examined & inspected the following lots of Indian Corn and find them to be as follows. 
Vizt. Lott No. 1 containing 1495 bushels by estimation considerably damaged, as well from its being extremely dirty, as from being put up damp and impregnated with the Sweat of Horses, or dampness received in the boxes in which it was transported or otherwise. 
Lott No. 2 containing 2960 bushels by estimate also considerably damag'd from the causes above stated  excepting 635 bushels in a back lower room, which is good but wants cleaning. 
Lott No. 3 containing 2625 bushels by estimating found tho' much in want of winnowing in consequence of which it is much more liable to damage than clean corn.
Lott No. 4 containing 860 bushels by estimation somewhat damag'd and we think might be perserved in tolerable condition if clean'd. 
One Stack of hay, containing 19,760 solid feet agreeably to our extimation 60 Ton as good as the Prairie will afford.  Altho' the Corn is damag'd as above
stated, yet we are of opinion that by cleaning it at an early period, and keeping it cool, it may chiefly be render'd or preserv'd fit for use.
For the purpose of cleaning & preserving the above quantity of Corn, we are of opinion, that ten men will be necessary as a Standing Fatigue with the advantage of a Wind Fann to their assistance.  
This is a Copy of our report
Ser Joseph C Collins, Inspector in the QrMr Department
A Schedule of the payments made at the requisition of the Quarter Master General enclosed in the Secretary of War letter, of the 29th, June 1793.
April 15th, Remitted to the QrMr General 40,000 Doll[ars]
April 29th, Paid Mr Belle bills of Dollars 262 and 1021} of the 3rd Feby 15 [illegible] Sight 1,263
100, 307.66, 1200, 1000, 500} of the 10th April [ditto] 3,707.66
May 30, remitted to Majr. Isaac Craig to be disburs'd at Pittsburgh 1,304.
June 16, remitted to [ditto] for [ditto] 5,000
June 29, In hands of Mr. Saml Hodgdon, subject to the Quarter Master Generals order ... 13,725.30
War Dept June 29th 93 H. Knox S of W           Dole 65,000.
on a part of the grain & hay purchased by him.
We are anxiously waiting to hear of the Operations of the Army, not having had any Accounts to be depended on since the 1st of September - Mrs. O'Hara is very well this morning, she says you owe her a number of letters & I begin to apprehend that I have some reason to make a similar charge against you.  
Presley Neville represents our Country in Assembly & there is no doubt of Governor Mifflins re-election.  
I am Sir your Most Obt Servant
Isaac Craig
