---
authors:
- Alexander Hamilton
collection_id: 873
collections:
- James Wilkinson Papers
created: '2018-07-16T14:39:54+00:00'
description: Hamilton replies to Wilkinson's of June 29th and says that, while he will miss Wilkinson's company, he agrees that it makes sense for him to go straight to Pittsburgh. Hamilton thanks Wilkinson
  for his observations on the Havannah. Mrs. Hamilton sends thanks for a box of pecans.
document_number: '1800079990010'
omeka_image_id: 7269
images:
- 3048d5fa88ed9146ed7526052e7d68d297cb4693.jpg
- a9b5cdfcd82759ca69beddc0733fb49327109fef.jpg
- 991d51a711f50e330107af934c170fa13190b49f.jpg
month: '07'
notable_items:
- military functions
- company
- observations
- Havannah
- commission
- box of pecans
- esteem and friendship
notable_locations:
- New York
- Pittsburgh
notable_persons:
- Alexander Hamilton
- James Wilkinson
- Mrs. Hamilton
- Mrs. Wilkinson
- Elizabeth Schuyler Hamilton
- Ann Biddle Wilkinson
- Mrs. Church
- General North
omeka_id: 79171
recipients:
- James Wilkinson
repositories:
- Chicago Historical Society
resource_type: Document
sent_from: New York
title: Thanks for Observations and Pecans
year: '1800'
---



Brigadier General Wilkinson
[at the left margin undecipherable]
[undecipherable] July 1810
My Dr. Sir
I have this morning the [pleasure] of your public and private letter of [undecipherable] of June.  I write this acknowlegement [of] the two in this [undecipherable] letter because I [undecipherable my military functions to have [undecipherable] my situation has been left somewhat [undecipherable] cal.  Though I shall regret the loss [of] an opportunity of conversing with you of manifesting in conjunction with Mr. H-- to Mrs. Wilkinson the pleasure & we should have in her company-- [undecipherable] I think you an [undecipherable] in proceeding directly to Pittsburgh.  This upon [the] whole will have be the most desirable in a public view as well as most [undecipherable] to your family and yourself----
I am obliged by your observations on the Havannah
Your commission to [undecipherable] Church I shall execute with pleasure Mr. Hamilton sends you complements [and] thanks for the box of pacans.  That [undecipherable] General North shall be forwarded [undecipherable] you will learn that we are a [undecipherable] & disbanded lott.
Mr. H, my [undecipherable] to the politeness of Mrs. Wilkinson, [undecipherable] well acquainted with her from my  represent[undecipherable] out to receive with pleasure the express[undecipherable] [undecipherable] kindness and to reciprocate every [undecipherable]
[undecipherable].  The [undecipherable] & friendship with which I was many years ago impressed cannot be obliterated.  Whenever you may [undecipherable] of [undecipherable] be these an sentiments which you will [undecipherable] use to command from me.
Very truly Yrs
A. H[undecipherable]
General Wilkinson
