---
collection_id: 739
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:40:00+00:00'
day: '17'
description: Contract between Secretary of the Navy Stoddert and Foxall for delivery by Foxall of forty eight iron cannon.
doc_types:
- Document
document_number: '1800101700055'
omeka_image_id: 35715
images: []
month: '10'
notable_items:
- contract
- wharf
- vessel
- iron cannon
- drafts
- ball
- nine pound ball
- forty two pound ball
- cast
- muzzle
- breech
- bore
- caliber
- expense
- inspection
- rules and regulations
- guns
- powder
- prices
- advance
- bond
- payments
- proving
- metal
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Pennsylvania
- Maryland
- Keep Tryste Furnace
- Keep Triste Furnace
notable_persons:
- Benjamin Stodder
- Secretary of the Navy
- Henry Foxall
- Navy
- Charles Goldborough
- Jeremiah Nicols Jr
omeka_id: 79210
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
title: Contract with Henry Foxall
year: '1800'
---



Articles of Agreement made this 17th day of
October in the year 1800, between Benjamin Stoddert
Secretary of the Navy, for and in behalf the United
States of the one part and Henry Foxall of the
County of Philadelphia of the other part by:
1st That the said Hery Foxall engorges to deliver
at his own proper Cost and expense for the use of
the Navy of the United States, at some Convenient
Wharf on tide Water accessible to Vessels drawing
nine feet Water, in Pennsylvania or Maryland
to be designated by the said Secretary of the Navy
or his Successor in office, one hundred and 
forthy eight Iron Cannon of such dimensions and
caliber, and agreeably to such drafts as shall be
[undecipherabel] time to time determined on, and furnished
by the Secretary of the Navy for the time being. the
smallest gun however not to carry a ball less than
nine poinds weight, and the largest to carry a
ball of not more than forty two pounds
weight: the whole to be complicated within twelve
Months from the datehereof, if the same shall
be so soon required by the Secretary of the Navy
[undecipherable] at latest within eighteen Months.
2.dly The saif Cannonare to be cast solid, and be
truly and straight in the Centre of the piece from
the Nuzzle to the Breech, and the bore shall
correspond with each given caliber.
3dly The said Cannon shall be inspected and
proved at the expense of the United States
agreeably to such rules and regulations as are
or may be presented for proving Guns by the War
Department of the United States, and under the
direction of such person or persons as may be
appointed for that purpose by the Secretary
of the Navy for the time being, who shall attend
the[undecipherable] to when ever the said Henry Foxall
shal require it; he knowing not less than Fifteen
Guns ready to be proved. should any of the 
guns burst in proving, the said Henry
Foxall ready covenants to pay the expense
of the Poweder.
4.th If the said Benjamin Stoddert or his Successor
should require any of the Guns to be made lighter
than usual that is, lighter than two hundred
pounds weight, for each pound weight of vall
they shall be [undecipherable] lated to carry, a reasonable
allowance is to be made to the said Henry Foxall
over and above the prices herein after stipulated.
the rule in such cases has been to pay, as if
the Gun actually weighted at the rate of two 
hundred pounds to each pound of Ball deducting
the price of the Iron saved. But it is
thought that this rule will be too liberal in
guns of large Size.
5thly The said Secretary of the Navy for himself and
his Successor, engages to allow and Cause to be 
paid to the said Henry Foxall for every Ton
weight of the said Cannon made of Common Iron
of the full weight as recited in the last proceed.
ing in which, one hundred and thirty dollars and for 
every ton weight of the said Canon made of the 
Keep Triste Iron of the weight aforesaid, one hundred
and thirty three dollars, and one third of a dollar
ad for those of lighter weight in proportion 
to the weight of Ball, as is also provided for
in the said article and it is understood that
the said Cannon are to be made out of the Keep
Thistle Iron, if the said Henry Foxall can procure
sufficient quantities of the said Iron, in due 
time.
6thly The said Secretary of the Navy agrees to
advance to the said Henry Foxall, on his
giving Bond with Satisfactory Security for
the faithful performance of this Contract
the sum of eighteen thousand dollars
- and the said advance of eighteen thousand
dollars shall be deducted - from the first
deliveries of Cannon at the rate of one half
the amount of the account of each delivery
until the whole shall be accounted for.
The residue of the payments for the said Cannon are
to be made on the delivery of every Fifteen Guns or
more inspected and proved as aforesaif, [undecipherable]
Certificate of the person or persons appointed to
inspect and prove them, that Fifteen or more
Guns are ready to be delivered.
7thly In case any of the Guns shall be directed to
be made lighter than usual as is provided
for in article 4th and such Guns burst in the
proving, they shall nevertheless be paid for
deducting the price of the Metal saved. In
witness to hereof the said Parties have the
[undecipherable] unto set theidr hands and seals the day and
year f??t above written.




 Sealed and delivered in the presence of
 Ben Stoddert [signature followed by a paper seal]


 Ch W Goldsborogh


 Jeremiah Nicols Junr
 Henry Tropall [signature followed by a paper seal]

Mr. Foxall urging that eighteen months
may be too short a time for the completion
of this contract, especially out of the Iron of
the Keep [undecipherable] , - it is agreed that
twenty five months shall be allowed him, provided
the Public shorts not sooner than occasion for
the Guns, in which case, he is [undecipherable]
for the Secry of the Navy, in due time - and is
then to exert himself when the Guns completed
sooner than 18 months, is practicable.
Ben Stoddert



Henry Foxalls
Contract for
148 Cannons
Oct. 17.th 1800
Enld Pha 38 a41)
