---
authors:
- Constant Freeman
collection_id: 774
collections:
- Claims Files Relating to Service in the Revolutionary War, 1775-1851. (RG217)
created: '2018-07-16T14:40:00+00:00'
day: 08
description: Freeman has arrived in Savannah from Pensacola and will proceed to Charleston per orders as soon as he has rested from the journey. He asks for duplicates of rolls and points out that the merchants
  in Georgia need to be paid for their services. Freeman also asks for tiem off to move his family to his new station.
document_number: '1798060870001'
omeka_image_id: 15018
images:
- 4c96249b2eaae4c15d5625b57bca37fa967ad160.jpg
month: '06'
notable_items:
- rest
- rolls
- paymaster
- public service
- clothing
- horses
- furniture
notable_locations:
- Savannah
- Pensacola
- Indian Country
- Charleston
- Augusta
- Philadelphia
notable_persons:
- William Simmons
- Constant Freeman
- paymaster
- Colonel Pope
- militia
- merchants
- family
- Hagner
note: "Cited in Freeman to Simmons, 07/24/1798 and 7/31/1798.\r\nOne of two copies of this letter in this collection."
omeka_id: 79233
recipients:
- William Simmons
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Savannah
title: Need for Payment to Merchants in Georgia, etc
year: '1798'
---



Savannah 8. June 1798
Constant Freeman
Recd 26 
[undecipherable]
Savannah
8.th June 1798.
Sir
I have the pleasure to inform you that I arrived in this city the daybefore yesterday. I came from Pennsacola, through the Indian country in twenty one days.
I have received your favor of the 3.d of May. and I shall proceed to Charleston as soon as I have dispatched my letters to the northward and have written to the paymaster of the militia. I require some rest to recover from the fatigues of my long and unpleasant journey. I shall certainly go in three or four days.
I wish you had transmitted me duplicates of such of the rolls as one in your office lest Col.o Pope should not have them. My papers are not here, I cannot therefore inofrm you whether I have all the rolls but I imagine they must be with the paymaster of the militia. If I should find him here on my return from Charleston I shall place the money in his hands for all he may produce which are included in the estimate. He has therefore received the fullest instructions relatively to the mode of non actings the payments: but not withstandind I shall expect to receive from you such farther orders as you may judge necessary for the public service, they may arrive here before he with will be able to make any payments.
It is necessary that I should observe to you that, there are many demands which cannot be dispersed with; suck as the accounts of respectable merchants in this place & Augusta who have made advances in clothing, &c, for the men and others for horses and furniture. The commanding officers of the several detachments have been responsible for the payments and it has been witht he greatest difficulty they have hitherto prevented law suits. A great many of the men who composed the different detachments are now dispersed over the United States. Every precaution, howeever, shall be taken to prevent the speculations from defrauding the soldiers.
You can judge best, being on the short, whether I shall be permitted to return to Philadelphia: If Col.o Pope should attend as I expect - I shall make the greatest exections to dispatch my business whit him. the public service cannot, detainly, suffer in our indulgence of a few weeks to enable me to bring my family out to this country. I know you friendship for me and therefore rely that you will second my application to the Secretary of War. If leave of absence should be granted to me it would not be necessary to send but my trunk of papers as it might miss me.
My best compliments to W. Hagner and all my accquaintance.
I am with the highest esteem
Sir Your obedient hum.l Serv.t
Cons.t Freeman
A.W.D.

William Simmons Esq.r
A.D.W.
