---
authors:
- Clement Biddle
collection_id: 739
collections:
- Post Revolutionary War Papers, 1784-1815. (RG94)
created: '2018-07-16T14:40:00+00:00'
day: '27'
description: Biddle lists articles he will need which he did not have when he left town. Further concerns about supplies for troops.
document_number: '1794092780201'
omeka_image_id: 34759
images: []
month: 09
notable_items:
- articles
- quotas
- muskets
- cartouch boxes
- knapsacks
- straps
- canteens
- horsemans tents
- camp kettles
- tin cups
- spades
- common tents and poles
- supplies
- public money
- arms
- camp equipage
- rifles
- wagon
- stores
notable_locations:
- Philadelphia
- Reading
- Harrisburgh
- Carlisle
notable_persons:
- Samuel Hodgdon
- Clement Biddle
- troops
- militia
- Mr. Jackson
- Colonel Copperthwaite
- Colonel Hamilton
- assistant
- Thomas Biddle
omeka_id: 79243
recipients:
- Samuel Hodgdon
repositories:
- National Archives and Records Administration
resource_type: Document
sent_from: Philadelphia
title: Articles Wanted
year: '1794'
---



Colonel Samuel Hodgdon
Philadlephia


Letter from Col.
Biddle 27 Septm
1794



[stamp:]
Received from State Dep't. Nov. 24.1894 R.P.O 40110.
Philad Sep 27. 1794
D. Sir,
The assembling og the Troops at the appointed plae in the Country made it absolutley necessary for me to site off for Reading andHamburgh and a few miles on my journey I sat down to make my arrangements of Articles which are yet to be forwarded to furnish the quotas of militia in the different Counties which are not abuady provided, and find that th following Articles are wanted altho partly included in my orders to Mr. Jackson not executed when I left Town perhaps he may have received some of them firce -- if not he will want




 150
 Mortars & Cartouch boxes


 2600
 Knapsacks with finished or unstrapped but to have the strapes with them


 2400
 Cartons


 84
 [undecipherable] Tents


 460
 Camp [undecipherable] I believe he has too


 920
 Tin Cases if any


 50
 Axes he will provision the rest


 20
 punts


 20
 Spades


 340
 common Tents & poles

If he should wnat any other articles which I have omitted orwhich eh may be called on for before he goes I request you will deliver them uptn his order and I will be accountable . He will
try to get away on Monday. the Supplies which I call for now do not include any part for the Milita of Philad.a City or County which may assemple after Col.o Copperthwaite Marces, which I expect will be on Monday or Tuesday at farthest, but if they should assemble later in greater numbers and buy an the, the quota of the City & County which is indeed at present much exceeded - will you be so obliging as to state the matter to Col Hamilton and take his directions whether they shall be supplied, as I shall not have any assistant for supplies after Mr. Jackson setts off but leave the arragemet of my public money concerns with my son Thomas Biddle, and I shall direct any other appliations to youl requiering that articles may be issued only on the orders of Officers commanding Corps.
In case you cannot issue the Articles required to Mr. Jackson, or if there is at present a Dificiency in horsemans Tents & Knapsacks, I entreat the favour of you to forward them as quick as possible to Harrisburgh & Carlisle at the Militia of this State will be in great want of them & very clamourous as you will know ir I am not enabled by these supplies to put them on an equal footing of distribution in Arms and Camp Equipage.
Will you please to direct the Arms at Carlisle to be issued on my order, Rifles as well as Muskets as I count on them in my arragements & General Miller will not be there.
I am with esteem
D. Sir
Your obt Servt.
Clemens Biddle
2nd Reimnts

Procy oblige one bye delivering one
Waggon load of Stores this day for Reading
whatMr. Jackson will poinr out.
