---
aliases:
- /news/?p=1759
author: Alyssa Fahringer
categories:
- News
date: '2016-03-17T10:55:00'
title: Celebrate the Five Year Anniversary of Community Transcription!
type: news
wp_post_id: 1759
---

<p><b>March 17, 2016</b></p>
<p><b>For Immediate Release: </b><b>Celebrate the Five Year Anniversary of Community Transcription with the Papers of the War Department</b></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400">Celebrate the five year anniversary of community sourced transcription with the </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Papers of the War Department 1784-1800</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> (</span><a href="http://wardepartmentpapers.org"><span style="font-weight: 400">http://wardepartmentpapers.org</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400">). An ongoing innovative documentary editing project, the </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Papers of the War Department</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> is comprised of 0ver 42,000 digitized manuscript documents made freely accessible on the web by the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media (RRCHNM) (</span><a href="http://chnm.gmu.edu/"><span style="font-weight: 400">http://chnm.gmu.edu/</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400">). In 2011, RRCHNM embarked on the effort to engage the larger community of citizen historians in the process of transcribing these important documents. By transcribing the digitized manuscripts, users contribute to the collection’s usability and searchability. March 17, 2016 marks five years since the launch of the community transcription project  </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Papers of the War Department </span></i><span style="font-weight: 400">and we are delighted at its success thus far. </span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400">After a devastating fire at the United States War Office in 1800, what has been considered the “national archive” of its time was thought lost. The collection was reassembled from scattered fragments found in over 200 diverse repositories before being transferred to the RRCHNM in 2006. These documents are invaluable sources of information on militia and army matters in the Early Republic. The War Department was responsible for frontier diplomacy, Indian affairs, veteran affairs as well as being a considerable commercial goods consumer.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400">Since inviting members of the community to assist with the transcription effort in 2011, the </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Papers of the War Department</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> has amassed 2,538 registered users. These users come from varying backgrounds including genealogists, public historians, students and educators from all levels of educational institutions, and members of Native American tribes. With the help from these community transcribers, the </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Papers of the War Department</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> now has over 1,500 documents transcribed, totaling 6,279 pages. Without the hard work and dedication of our community transcribers, the </span><i><span style="font-weight: 400">Papers of the War Department</span></i><span style="font-weight: 400"> would not have been as successful. We are ecstatic with the contributions the project has received over these first five years and look forward to seeing its continued growth.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400">The Papers of the War Department was made possible through funding from the </span><a href="http://www.archives.gov/nhprc/"><span style="font-weight: 400">National Historical Publications and Records Commission</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400"> and the </span><a href="http://www.neh.gov"><span style="font-weight: 400">National Endowment for the Humanities</span></a><span style="font-weight: 400">.</span></p>
<p><b>About the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media </b></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400">Since 1994, the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media (RRCHNM) &lt;http://chnm.gmu.edu&gt; at George Mason University &lt;http://gmu.edu&gt; has used digital media and computer technology to democratize history—to incorporate multiple voices, reach diverse audiences, and encourage popular participation in presenting and preserving the past. The Center itself is a democratic, collaborative space where over fifty scholars, technologists, and researchers work together to advance the state of the art. RRCHNM uses digital media and technology to preserve and present history online, transform scholarship across the humanities, and advance historical education and understanding. Each year RRCHNM’s many project websites receive over 20 million visitors, and over a million people rely on its digital tools to teach, learn, and conduct research. Their work has been recognized with major awards and grants from the American Historical Association, National Humanities Center, National Endowment for the Humanities, National Council on Public History, U.S. Department of Education, Library of Congress, Institute of Museum and Library Services, American Council of Learned Societies, and the Mellon, Sloan, Hewlett, Rockefeller, Gould, Delmas, and Kellogg foundations.</span></p>
