---
aliases:
- /news/?p=808
author: rmartin
categories:
- Document Guides
date: '2012-02-13T19:52:00'
title: St. Clair Defeat
type: news
wp_post_id: 808
---

<p>Following the disastrous Harmar expedition against the Western IndiansГӮВ  in the fall of 1790, which resulted in the loss of 180 men (including 73 federal troops),ГӮВ  planning began for another expedition in 1791. ГӮВ Governor Arthur St. Clair was appointed General in Chief, Richard Butler commanded the levies, Samuel Hodgdon became the Quarter Master General and General Charles Scott commanded the Kentucky militia.ГӮВ  The public clamored for a swift and effective response against the Indians of the Ohio wilderness.ГӮВ ГӮВ  This in turn pressured Hodgdon to take up a frantic pace in administering the procurement of supplies.ГӮВ  The problems of supply were many, but the major ones wereГӮВ  related to coordination with contractors, transportation of supplies through the rugged wilderness,ГӮВ  and the generally low quality of the arms and supplies themselves. ГӮВ ГӮВ Delays throughout the spring and summer of 1791 taxed the patience of <a href=" http://wardepartmentpapers.org/document.php?id=5585">St. Clair</a>, who became concerned about the onset of winter and the expiration of six month long militia enlistments. ГӮВ ГӮВ  So in August, he began to move his incomplete force toward Fort Washington (modern day Cincinnati). ГӮВ EventuallyГӮВ  General Butler and his levies joined up with St. Clair, but movement remained extremely sluggish as the army stopped to build forts andГӮВ  struggled under the weight of excessive baggage and a seemingly limitlessГӮВ  trail of wives, washerwomen and camp followers.ГӮВ  Morale too suffered because of supply problems.ГӮВ  Desertion was so rampant that St. Clair resorted to public execution of deserters.</p>
<p>This was all before any shots were fired in anger.ГӮВ  One of St. ClairГўВҖВҷs officers sounded this ominous note: ГӮВ ГўВҖВңI pray God that should the General proceed, the Enemy may not be disposed to give us battle-our forceГўВҖВҰare the worst and most dissatisfied Troops I have ever served with.ГўВҖВқГӮВ ГӮВ  A week later, St. Clair established his force on either side of the Wabash River.ГӮВ  On 4 November, both Generals St. Clair and Butler were sick, so the adjutant general Colonel Winthrop Sargent was nominally in charge duringГӮВ  reveille. ГӮВ After Sargent had finished inspecting the militia,ГӮВ  the Indians launched a surprise attack.ГӮВ  The battle only lasted three hours,ГӮВ  but the results were devastating.ГӮВ  Of the 920 American soldiers, 632 were killed and 264 wounded (a casualty rate of 97%).ГӮВ  General ButlerГўВҖВҷs heart was cut out and General St. Clair had eight bullet holes in his uniform.ГӮВ  St. ClairГўВҖВҷs Defeat remains the single worst defeat suffered by the U.S. Army in its history.ГӮВ  Here in the Papers of the War Department collection is a <a href="/docimage.php?id=5895&amp;docColID=6385">sketchГӮВ  </a>drawn by Winthrop Sargent showing the disposition of forces when the Indians attacked. ГӮВ Note the positioning of forces on both sides of the river.</p>
